
--- 페이지 1 ---
In Focus
Ukraine’s Lessons for Future Combat: 
Unmanned Aerial Systems and Deep Strike
Harry Halem
©2023 Harry Halem
ABSTR ACT: The Russia-Ukraine War holds many lessons 
for the US Army and American policymakers and leaders 
on the nature and role of reconnaissance-strike complexes in modern 
combat, especially Ukraine’s development of a battle-management 
system that fuses unmanned aerial systems and satellite 
reconnaissance to enable the fire coordination for deep strikes  
into the enemy rear. In the research presented here, open-source 
analysis and interviews in Ukraine focus on the development 
and employment of reconnaissance-strike complexes with respect 
to deep strike and the likelihood of mutual territorial attack.
Keywords: unmanned aerial systems, deep strike, reconnaissance-strike 
complex, electronic warfare, Russia-Ukraine War
T
he 
Russia-Ukraine 
War 
presents 
the 
first 
instance 
in which both combatants deploy robust, if still largely 
primitive, reconnaissance-strike complexes (RSCs) that they 
innovate during wartime. This situation allows observers to identify 
fundamental mechanics of the interaction between these complexes 
that provide programmatic and intellectual lessons for the US Army 
as it prepares to face near-peer adversaries for the first time since the 1980s. 
Ukraine’s experience demonstrates the relevance of RSCs to the deep fight—
in Ukraine’s case, a complex enabled by unmanned aerial systems (UAS) 
is employed to allow for strikes deep into the Russian rear, using a handful 
of precision weapons to generate major effects.
This analysis first identifies the roots of Ukrainian military learning 
from 2014–22 and argues that the Russia-Ukraine War constitutes 
a watershed moment in combat because both sides employ a primitive RSC. 
It then explicates the technical and operational characteristics of Ukraine’s  
unmanned aerial system and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
(ISR) system and identifies the manner in which Ukraine’s UAS-ISR system 
generates opportunities for deep strike. Finally, it outlines several 
programmatic and intellectual takeaways for the US Army, particularly  
on the role of deep strike.
--- 페이지 2 ---
22  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
Context: Ukraine’s Strategic Problem and Military Learning
The current Armed Forces of Ukraine (ZSU) reflect a cross section 
of Ukrainian society, making civilian applications like Signal and Scribble Maps 
crucial to Ukrainian UAS-ISR use as new soldiers turn to technologies 
they know from civilian experience. Nevertheless, the system’s basic idea— 
to create a pervasive UAS-ISR complex, link it to commanders, and enable 
distributed fires—has existed since the 2014 Donbas war because Ukraine 
has confronted a relatively consistent strategic problem.
The Russian armed forces have outmatched the ZSU since the  
Donbas war began.1 In 2014, Ukraine had around 6,000 combat troops,  
had just experienced a traumatic change in political leadership, and had  
virtually no international partners even when compared to Russian-backed forces 
in eastern Ukraine.2 Yet, Ukraine’s ragtag forces gained an advantage over 
the Russian-backed separatists, prompting a Russian intervention, and despite 
setbacks, performed reasonably well.3 From that point, Ukraine’s strategic 
problem was apparent: it confronted a qualitatively and quantitatively superior 
Russian military while lacking clear allies. The Ukrainian armed forces were, 
therefore, compelled to innovate.
Despite Ukraine’s structural political issues, specific bureaucratic shifts 
and its political culture gave the ZSU a learning advantage over the Russian 
military. In 2018, Ukraine redesignated the Anti-Terrorist Operation—
Author’s Note: In between this article’s composition and publication, one of its sources, and one of my  
close friends, was killed in action. His loss, like so many others, came in defense of his country and  
serves as a reminder of the sacrifices liberty demands.
Acknowledgments: I spent several weeks in Ukraine in March 2023 and discussed unmanned aerial systems 
(UAS) employment in intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and targeting (ISR/T) contexts with a variety 
of active Ukrainian military personnel. My dataset is, of necessity, incomplete. Any number of interviews 
do not indicate a legitimate sample size for data experimentation. The nature of this war and the time that 
analysts have to collect and process information indicate that my conclusions are more inductive inferences 
subject to future refinement than deductive truths. Nor did my limited Ukrainian linguistic abilities help 
the situation. I am indebted to those Ukrainian soldiers and civilians, among many others in Ukraine, 
who were willing to help bridge the gap with subjects who would have struggled to communicate with me. 
Indeed, the openness of many Ukrainians to foreign observers should not be underestimated—in retrospect 
it should come as no surprise that a nation of 44 million struggling for its existence should welcome all the help 
it can receive from external assessors. One unimpeachable conclusion I can draw is that the United States 
and its allies should leverage this cultural reality and get as many analysts—uniformed and civilian— 
into Ukraine as possible. Moreover, in a war as violent and intense as this one, any data rapidly lose  
accuracy with time. All conclusions must be updated with fresh information.
1.  Mykhaylo Zabrodskyi et al., Preliminary Lessons in Conventional Warfighting from Russia’s Invasion 
of Ukraine: February–July 2022 (London: Royal United Services Institute [RUSI], November 2022), 
13–18, 36.
2.  Lawrence Freedman, Ukraine and the Art of Strategy (New York: Oxford University Press, 
2019), 106–16.
3.  Freedman, Art of Strategy, 114. See also Andriy Zagorodnyuk et al., “Is Ukraine’s Reformed  
Military Ready to Repel a New Russian Invasion?,” UkraineAlert (blog), Atlantic Council (website), 
December 23, 2021, https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/ukrainealert/is-ukraines-reformed-military 
-ready-to-repel-a-new-russian-invasion/.
--- 페이지 3 ---
In Focus
Halem  23
the bureaucratic title for Kyiv’s operations in the country’s east—
as the Joint Forces Operation.4 This change formally recognized Russia 
as a belligerent in the conflict and shifted command responsibility from 
the Security Service of Ukraine to the Ukrainian General Staff. This transition 
enabled a robust learning process within the Armed Forces of Ukraine since 
its soldiers and officers could openly discuss the war they were fighting. Internal 
learning dovetailed with the West’s training missions.5 The Russian military, 
by contrast, was never formally at war. The Syrian Civil War became its reference 
point—a conflict in which Russia held absolute air control and played 
an enabling role was not a helpful analogy to the current Russia-Ukraine War.6 
Moreover, multiple high-level Ukrainian commanders today experienced 
combat in the Donbas or were part of the post-2014–15 training cycle 
and are far younger than their Western counterparts, indicating significant 
cultural turnover that enables innovation.7
Also developed from 2014–22 was the sophisticated volunteer 
nongovernmental (NGO) system that interfaced directly with the military 
since the earliest days of the Donbas war. Most notable of these NGOs 
is the UAS-focused Aerorozvidka.8 Relations between the Ukrainian defense 
ministry and these NGOs have been fractious at times. Even in wartime, 
it took months for the defense ministry to begin procuring unmanned aerial 
systems for units directly—and today, private donations remain essential. 
The elements of the current Ukrainian system, however, have deep roots 
in the strategic culture of the ZSU.
Historical Trends and Modern Strike
The Ukrainian armed forces’ UAS-ISR system, an outgrowth of their  
unique strategic culture, is of interest for more than just tactical and
4.  Adam Coffey, “Commentary – Ukraine Declares ‘Anti-Terrorist Operation in the Donbas’ Officially 
Over: What Does That Mean?,” RUSI (website), May 16, 2018, https://rusi.org/explore-our-research 
/publications/commentary/ukraine-declares-anti-terrorist-operation-donbas-officially-over-what-does-mean.
5.  Per the author’s work in Ukraine (March 29, 2023), these missions have had a cultural effect since 
the 1990s, which only intensified after 2014 when the ZSU pivoted to a war footing. See also John Jaworsky, 
“Ukraine’s Armed Forces and Military Policy,” Harvard Ukrainian Studies 20 (1996): 238–40.
6.  For Russian assessments of Syria, see Mason Clark, The Russian Military’s Lessons Learned 
in Syria, Military Learning and the Future of War Series (Washington, DC: Institute for the Study 
of War [ISW], January 2021), 11–12.
7.  “General Valerii Zaluzhnyi: Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine,” Ministry of Defence (MoD) 
of Ukraine (website), last updated September 23, 2021, https://www.mil.gov.ua/en/ministry-of-defence 
-leader/general-valerii-zaluzhnyi.html; Yuri Lapaiev, “New Appointments in the Ukrainian Military: 
Occasion for Restrained Optimism?,” Eurasia Daily Monitor 18, no. 132 (August 2021), https://jamestown 
.org/program/new-appointments-in-the-ukrainian-military-occasion-for-restrained-optimism/; and “Lieutenant 
General Serhii Shaptala: Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine,” MoD of Ukraine 
(website), last updated September 23, 2021, https://www.mil.gov.ua/en/ministry-of-defence-leader 
/lieutenant-general-serhii-shaptala.html.
8.  Patrick Tucker, “Ukraine’s Drone Warriors,” NATOSource (blog), Atlantic Council (website), 
March 10, 2015, https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/natosource/ukraine-s-drone-warriors/.
--- 페이지 4 ---
24  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
programmatic reasons. The Russia-Ukraine War, the first large-scale 
conflict since the 2003 invasion of Iraq, is also the first war during which 
both sides have had to innovate and modify their reconnaissance-strike 
complexes and, indeed, the first conflict in which both combatants have 
something approximating RSCs.
The RSC concept has its roots in Soviet and Russian doctrine but  
is conceptually identifiable in Western military thought.9 In brief, the  
reconnaissance-strike complex is an integrated intelligence, surveillance, 
reconnaissance, and targeting (ISR/T) fires system, in which the time 
between target identification and engagement is extremely compressed.10 
Sensors and shooters operate together in a harmonized network that makes 
combat a game of target identification, in which the side that is found 
first is usually killed.11
The RSC concept is inextricably linked to intellectual-doctrinal 
developments in the 1980s in the United States and Soviet Union.12 
Both doctrines increasingly pointed toward attacking the enemy at operational 
depth, a more natural line for the Soviets with deep operational theory, 
but one that finally translated into the West.13
A properly constructed RSC should enable the synchronization of violence 
across an immense battlespace at depth and width, creating a combat area orders 
of magnitude larger than what was historically feasible.14 The US military 
deployed an early reconnaissance-strike complex in the Iraq wars, while 
China and Russia have deployed their own RSCs since the late 2010s.15 
These complexes should also include artificial intelligence (AI); the fact that 
neither Ukraine nor Russia employs major AI indicates the degree to which 
their reconnaissance-strike complexes are still primitive.
9.  Lester W. Grau and Charles K. Bartles, The Russian Reconnaissance Fire Complex Comes 
of Age (Oxford, UK: University of Oxford Changing Character of War Centre/Axel and  
Margaret Axson Johnson Foundation/Pembroke College Oxford, May 2018), https://www.ccw.ox 
.ac.uk/s/The-Russian-Reconnaissance-Fire-Complex-Comes-of-Age-lz7p.pdf.
10.  B. A. Friedman, “Reconnaissance-Strike Tactics and Maneuver Warfare I,” Marine Corps Gazette 
(April 2022), WE3, https://mca-marines.org/wp-content/uploads/Reconnaissance-Strike-Tactics-and 
-Maneuver-Warfare-I.pdf.
11.  Andrew F. Krepinevich, Maritime Warfare in a Mature Precision-Strike Regime (Washington, DC:  
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 2014), 82–83, https://csbaonline.org/uploads 
/documents/MMPSR-Web.pdf.
12.  See Milan Vego, Recce-Strike Complexes in Soviet Theory and Practice (Fort Leavenworth, KS:  
Soviet Army Studies Office, June 1990), https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/ADA231900.pdf; and Michael J. Sterling, 
Soviet Reactions to NATO’s Emerging Technologies for Deep Attack, RAND Note (Santa Monica, CA:  
RAND Corporation, August 1985), https://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/notes/2009/N2294.pdf.
13.  Douglas W. Skinner, Airland Battle Doctrine, Professional Paper 463 (Alexandria, VA:  
Center for Naval Analyses, September 1988), 13, 31.
14.  Gordon R. Sullivan and James M. Dubik, “Land Warfare in the 21st Century,” in Envisioning Future 
Warfare (Fort Leavenworth, KS: US Army Command and General Staff College Press, 1995), 12.
15.  Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr., The Origins of Victory: How Disruptive Military Innovation Determines 
the Fate of Great Powers (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2023), 39ff.
--- 페이지 5 ---
In Focus
Halem  25
Ukraine is not the first conflict in which UAS and loitering munitions have 
been deployed at large scale. The Second Nagorno-Karabakh War included 
extensive UAS employment and, arguably, a nascent RSC on Azerbaijan’s part.16 
Azerbaijan’s success (at least partly) stemmed from structural deficiencies 
in the Armenian military, namely its lack of short-range air defenses against 
loitering munitions, inability to intercept fixed-wing UAS consistently, 
and limited electronic systems.17
By contrast, the Russia-Ukraine War provides sufficient scale 
and sophistication for conclusions to be drawn. Indeed, it is the first case 
of two militaries deploying and modifying their reconnaissance-strike 
complexes at scale in a competitive manner during wartime. Ukraine and Russia 
use much of the same equipment in their RSCs, while Russia has replicated 
Ukrainian employment methods.
Ukrainian UAS-ISR System
The ZSU has developed a sophisticated method of UAS employment that 
is integrated with a broader battle-management system that also receives 
information from US and private satellites.18 Precision-guided munitions 
are increasingly capable of hitting any individual target. Historically, however, 
weapons performance has exceeded practical ISR range.19 Ukraine demonstrates 
how unmanned aerial systems can narrow the precision-ISR gap through 
the creation of a UAS-enabled reconnaissance-strike complex.
Ukraine’s UAS-ISR system accomplishes two goals. First, it transforms 
traditional artillery fired in battery into “precision” weapons that can individually 
engage targets and rapidly improve accuracy. Second, it enables the Ukrainian 
armed forces to employ artillery in a distributed manner by facilitating 
responsive surveillance over a much wider area when combined with
16.  Jack Watling and Sidharth Kaushal, “Commentary – The Democratisation of Precision Strike 
in the Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict,” RUSI (website), October 22, 2020, https://rusi.org/explore-our 
-research/publications/commentary/democratisation-precision-strike-nagorno-karabakh-conflict.
17.  Shaan Shaikh and Wes Rumbaugh, “The Air and Missile War in Nagorno-Karabakh: Lessons for the  
Future of Strike and Defense,” Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) (website), December 8, 
2020, https://www.csis.org/analysis/air-and-missile-war-nagorno-karabakh-lessons-future-strike-and-defense.
18.  See Aaron Stein, “Airpower after Ukraine – The TB2: The Value of a Cheap and ‘Good Enough’ 
Drone,” Atlantic Council (website), August 30, 2022, https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/content-series/airpower 
-after-ukraine/the-tb2-the-value-of-a-cheap-and-good-enough-drone/. On Kropyva’s defense mapping software, 
see David Axe, “There’s a Good Reason the Russian Air Force Is Faltering. Ukrainian Air-Defense Crews 
Have Better Apps,” Forbes (website), October 18, 2022, https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidaxe/2022/10/18 
/theres-a-good-reason-the-russian-air-force-is-faltering-ukrainian-air-defense-crews-have-better-apps/;  
Kyiv Independent News Desk, “News Feed – Ukraine to Introduce Delta Situational Awareness System 
for Military,” Kyiv Independent (website), February 4, 2023, https://kyivindependent.com/government 
-introduces-nato-standard-delta-management-defense-system/; and “GIS ‘ARTA’: Automated Command 
and Control System,” n.d., GIS ARTA (website), https://gisarta.org/en/.
19.  Benjamin F. Koudelka Jr., Network-Enabled Precision Guided Munitions (Maxwell Air Force Base, 
AL: Air War College Center for Strategy and Technology, November 2005), 86.
--- 페이지 6 ---
26  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
a fluid battle-management system. This capability reduces the need for exposed 
logistics hubs and decreases Russian counter-battery effects, thereby allowing 
the ZSU to remain competitive despite a materiel disadvantage.
Ukraine’s UAS-ISR system requires the four types of UAS outlined  
in table 1 below.20 It must be noted that Russian forces increasingly replicate 
Ukrainian practices, though on average without commensurate results because 
of poor training standards, less effective equipment, and a lower-quality officer 
and technical specialist corps. Given the author focused overwhelmingly 
on Ukrainian tactics, techniques, and procedures during his time in-country 
and only incidentally discussed Russian practices, the UAS description focuses 
largely on Ukrainian ISR/T practices. Moreover, while factory specifications 
vary from the information depicted below for each type of unmanned aerial 
system, battlefield conditions often limit operational range.
Table 1. Four types of unmanned aerial systems required by Ukraine’s UAS-ISR system
Diameter
Cost
Range
Service Ceiling
Special Features
Small
> 1 meter
< $1,000
5 kilometers
> 1,000 meters
First-person view, copter, used for 
very short-range reconnaissance 
and as loitering munitions
Medium 
1 meter
$1,000 – 
$10,000
6 kilometers
1,000 meters
Short-range reconnaissance,  
light ordnance, and night work
Large 
1–3 meters
$10,000 – 
$30,000
10 kilometers
> 1,000 meters
Backbone of Ukrainian ISR
Fixed-Wing 
> 3 meters
> $30,000
> 20 kilometers 
(some reach 
several 100 
kilometers)
1,000 meters plus
Highest-quality sensors
Units often share information at the fireteam and squad level,  
but most intelligence analysis and target distribution occurs at the company 
to battalion level. The system’s flexibility stems from Ukraine’s technological 
literacy and extensive efforts to shift UAS-dense units around the front line.  
Much UAS training occurs through private charities that acquire 
unmanned aerial systems on the European market, transfer systems to units,  
train operators, and conduct the equivalent of doctrinal development.
20.  Information in table 1 comes from the author’s interviews, alongside other information in the public  
domain. See Jeffrey A. Edmonds and Samuel Bendett, Russia’s Use of Uncrewed Systems in Ukraine 
(Arlington, VA: Center for Naval Analyses, March 2023), 10, https://www.cna.org/reports/2023/03 
/Russian-Uncrewed-Systems-Ukraine.pdf; and David Hambling, “Editors’ Pick: Ukraine’s Next-Generation 
Drone Fleet Is Packed with Upgrades,” Forbes (website), March 1, 2023, https://www.forbes.com/sites 
/davidhambling/2023/03/01/ukraines-next-generation-drone-fleet-enhances-capabilities/.
--- 페이지 7 ---
In Focus
Halem  27
The Ukrainian battlespace is extraordinarily congested. A 20-kilometer 
zone around the contact line contains extensive trench lines, ground-based 
electronic warfare (EW ) systems, air defenses, artillery batteries, 
and counter-battery radars. Moreover, most Ukrainian UAS are dual 
use, making them operationally intuitive and cheap but decreasing their 
resilience to electronic warfare and the quality of their sensors and optics.  
Copter optics, with their roughly 20-kilometer daytime range,  
create a 30-kilometer ISR range. Major Russian targets are beyond this  
bubble, however, given Russia’s adjustment of logistics after its  
2022 deployment of the high-mobility artillery rocket system (HIMARS).21 
While large unmanned aerial systems have optics that can identify targets 
40–80 kilometers away—and much better range than copter UAS— 
they are loud and vulnerable to point air defense and EW. Even large  
copter UAS are too loud for night operations, but smaller copters with worse 
optics limit the range of artillery.
To compensate for electronic warfare, Ukrainian units deploy all unmanned 
aerial systems, barring first-person view drones, with four-man teams 
comprised of a driver or scout, drone operator, navigator, and gimbal operator.22 
Since UAS are jammed so often, the crew must track movements manually 
to prevent losses from inattention.23 Experienced UAS operators are the most 
valuable military occupation specialty to the ZSU, bar combat medics, 
and they lose far fewer unmanned aerial systems than the publicly quoted 
average would imply.24
Deep Strike and Fires Corridors in Ukraine
While skilled operators can reduce EW disruption to UAS, the range question 
remains. An effective RSC must be capable of facilitating strikes across 
the battlespace, particularly into the enemy’s depth. Fighting deep 
is critical in the Ukrainian case because of the need for a breakthrough 
and Russian fires volumes.
21.  Jack Watling and Nick Reynolds, Meatgrinder: Russian Tactics in the Second Year of Its Invasion 
of Ukraine, RUSI Special Report (London: RUSI, May 19, 2023), 11, https://static.rusi.org/403-SR 
-Russian-Tactics-web-final.pdf.
22.  Per the author’s interviews (March 24, 25, and 27, 2023), two-man teams are uncommon. They 
are restricted to medium UAS and highly competent operators.
23.  The author’s interviews (March 25, 27, and 30, 2023) indicated the majority of losses came from 
inattentive operators.
24.  The 
author’s 
interview 
subjects 
emphasized 
both 
military 
occupation 
specialties.  
Particularly in drone-specialist ISR units and artillery formations, UAS losses are extremely low. 
Moreover, by recovering hostile or lost friendly unmanned aerial systems, units can augment numbers 
over time. The author found that an average loss rate of one unmanned aerial system per month 
was typical for his subjects, though once again, line unit UAS losses are dramatically higher. The RUSI 
team, from which the 10,000-per-month figure generally stems, has also found the same need 
for contextualization.
--- 페이지 8 ---
28  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
Beyond the first few weeks of fighting, particularly around Kyiv, 
thickening front lines have defined the war, necessitating a breakthrough.25 
Conducting or foiling a breakthrough requires winning the deep fight.26 
Breaking through a thickly defended front line and defending it requires 
extreme effort.27 A sophisticated logistical system is crucial because artillery 
amplifies the role of logistics, which urban combat amplified again.28 
On the offensive, artillery is needed to suppress and destroy defensive 
positions to enable an armored breakthrough.29 On the defensive, artillery 
is needed to blunt attacking spearheads and ultimately destroy them.  
Deep strikes are needed both to starve the front line of shells, disrupt electronic 
assets, and suppress defender command-and-control (C2) nodes and to disrupt 
the attacking force.
The difficulty, therefore, is applying precision at distances of 30–100  
kilometers: the Ukrainian armed forces must sequence fires to maximize precision 
effects and avoid Russian counter-battery fire. The solution is to create what 
can be termed fires corridors, gaps in the electronic warfare and antiair warfare 
(AAW)defensive system that UAS and long-range fires can exploit.30
In Ukraine, US space-based capabilities and commercial satellite 
imaging help the ZSU identify targets.31 Suppressing or destroying 
the Russian EW-AAW blanket that defends the front line, however, currently 
requires unmanned aerial systems simply for their imaging responsiveness, 
even if these civilian-specification models are vulnerable to Russian jamming.
25.  Dan Rice, “The Untold Story of the Battle for Kyiv,” Small Wars Journal (website), May 31, 2022, 
https://smallwarsjournal.com/jrnl/art/untold-story-battle-kyiv.
26.  Jonathan Bailey, “The Birth of the Modern Style of Warfare in the Great War,” Defence Viewpoints  
from the UK Defence Forum (website), July 8, 2014, https://www.defenceviewpoints.co.uk/military 
-operations/the-birth-of-the-modern-style-of-warfare-in-the-great-war. See also Stephen Biddle, Military 
Power: Explaining Victory and Defeat in Modern Battle (Woodstock, UK: Princeton University Press, 
2004), 29–39.
27.  Georgii Samoilovich Isserson, “The Foundation of Deep Strategy,” in Deep Operations:  
Theoretical Approaches to Fighting Deep, ed. Jack D. Kem (Fort Leavenworth, KS: Army University 
Press, 2021), 15–23, https://www.armyupress.army.mil/Portals/7/combat-studies-institute/images/LSCO%20
DeepOps%20book%20interactive%20with%20cover%20spread%2012Nov21.pdf.
28.  Alexander Grinberg, “Glass Cannons from Grozny to Mariupol: What Should the US Military 
Learn from Russia’s Use of Artillery in Protracted Urban Sieges?,” Modern War Institute (website), 
February 13, 2023, https://mwi.usma.edu/glass-cannons-from-grozny-to-mariupol-what-should-the 
-us-military-learn-from-russias-use-of-artillery-in-protracted-urban-sieges/.
29.  Kyiv Independent News Desk, “News Feed – Zaluzhnyi: Russia Uses up to 60,000 Rounds 
of Ammunition Daily,” Kyiv Independent (website), August 16, 2022, https://kyivindependent.com 
/zaluzhnyi-russia-uses-up-to-60-000-rounds-of-ammunition-daily/.
30.  Zabrodskyi et al., Preliminary Lessons, 3.
31.  David T. Burbach, “Airpower after Ukraine: Early Lessons from the Russia-Ukraine 
War as a Space Conflict,” Atlantic Council (website), August 30, 2022, https://www 
.atlanticcouncil.org/content-series/airpower-after-ukraine/early-lessons-from-the-russia-ukraine 
-war-as-a-space-conflict/. See also Ariel E. Levite, Integrating Cyber into Warfighting: Some Early 
Takeaways from the Ukraine Conflict (Washington, DC: Carnegie Endowment for International 
Peace, April 18, 2023), 6, https://carnegieendowment.org/files/Levite_Ukraine_Cyber_War.pdf.
--- 페이지 9 ---
In Focus
Halem  29
The UAS-ISR complex is remarkably effective at mapping Russian frontline 
forces, enabling decentralized battery operation. To strike deep, enough fires 
must be concentrated to suppress or destroy multiple AAW, EW, artillery, 
and counter-battery assets 10–15 kilometers into Russian-held ground.  
This action creates a hole in the enemy AAW-EW network through 
which fixed-wing UAS can be used to identify the target and engage 
it with precision weapons at 70-plus kilometers. The deeper the target, 
the longer the window must be.
Fires corridors allow Ukraine to conduct deep strikes at scale, 
thereby targeting the logistical underpinnings of the Russian military. 
Indeed, the primacy of the deep fight is the central lesson analysis 
of the Russia-Ukraine War provides for future combat.
Ukraine has waged three successful anti-logistical efforts demonstrating  
the relevance of deep strike. First, Ukraine used a handful of Western-provided  
HIMARS to derail the summer 2022 Donbas offensive. A limited Ukrainian  
attack in the forest west of Izyum, the Russian forward supply hub  
in the Donbas, provided Ukraine an ideal position for HIMARS strikes 
against Russian logistics and C2 nodes. The effect was almost immediate: 
after taking Syeverodonetsk and Lysychansk and surging forward toward 
the Bakhmut-Siversk-Soledar line, Russian forces abruptly halted in the face 
of Ukraine’s deep strikes. The relevance of deep strike is reinforced by the fact 
that Russia had continued its advance before the HIMARS campaign began.32 
Naturally, other factors were relevant here, particularly Ukraine’s choice 
to commit reserves to Syeverodonetsk, thereby prompting Russian reserve 
commitments as well.33 Nevertheless, deep strike plays a crucial role.
Second, in the fall of 2022, Ukrainian deep strikes helped enable the Kharkiv 
offensive. Along with a deception campaign to reduce Russian force 
density, long-range strikes disrupted Russian logistics command and control, 
generating the operational vulnerability Ukraine exploited.34
32.  Karolina Hird et al., Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment (Washington, DC: ISW,  
July 24, 2022), https://www.understandingwar.org/sites/default/files/Russian%20Operations%20
Assessments%20June%204.pdf.
33.  Kateryna Stepanenko, Mason Clark, and George Barros, Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment 
(Washington, DC: ISW, June 4, 2022), https://www.understandingwar.org/backgrounder/russian 
-offensive-campaign-assessment-june-4.
34.  Franz-Stefan Gady and Michael Kofman, “Ukraine’s Strategy of Attrition,” Survival 65, no. 2  
(April-May 2023): 10. Although Gady and Kofman do concede that long-range strikes against 
C2 and logistics degraded Russian responses through three months of careful strikes, they correctly 
insist upon the broader theater strategic context, Russia’s rotation of quality units, and limited 
remaining forces in Kharkiv oblast. The point is that an undercurrent of deep strikes prompted other 
changes that hollowed out Russia’s defenses in Kharkiv, enabling major gains.
--- 페이지 10 ---
30  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
Third, Ukraine leveraged the unique conditions of the Kherson bridgehead 
between September and November 2022 to erode the Russian position, 
ultimately prompting a withdrawal from the Dnieper River’s right bank.  
Long-range artillery played a decisive role in this campaign, hitting Russian 
rail and road links to the bridgehead and ultimately hollowing out Russian 
logistics so thoroughly as to compel a withdrawal.
In each case, the operative factor was a general hollowing out of enemy capacity.  
By shortening some aspect of the Russian system—typically Russia’s ability  
to sustain large-scale forces deployed forward, but also by disrupting the  
Russian C2 network—Ukraine could compel Russia to roll its forces back,  
either retreating or halting an offensive.
As of this writing, Ukraine is on the offensive again. Although there 
are weeks to months of fighting ahead, the ZSU engaged in another deep-strike 
campaign that incudes loitering munitions, cruise missiles, and sabotage.35  
The Russians, however, have responded with a UAS-RSC of their own. 
Russia’s greatest innovation has been on the counter-battery side.36 
Russia’s Lancet loitering munitions, cued by the Russian UAS-ISR system 
linked to counter-battery radars, attack Ukrainian artillery as Ukraine 
seeks to create fires corridors. The Lancet flies fast enough to evade most 
Ukrainian short-range air-defense weapons. Ukraine’s response has been 
better dispersion as well as disruption to ISR-focused unmanned aerial 
systems, alongside a probable reduction in the number of towed artillery 
pieces deployed near the front line. Russian and Ukrainian RSCs are therefore 
interacting in a fluid manner.
Winning the deep fight need not entail completely paralyzing enemy 
C2 and logistics, though paralysis is ideal on the offensive. The objective, rather, 
is to impose costs upon enemy logistics. This burden will force the enemy 
to extend the distance between its major logistics hubs and the front line, 
complicate transportation, and force the enemy to devote time and resources 
to defending against deep attack. The result will be a diffusion of enemy 
resources even after logistical adjustment.
Russian fires weight has decreased across the front, as the Russian 
military now struggles to sustain the countrywide bombardment curtain 
it employed throughout 2022, primarily because deep strikes have forced
35.  Kyiv Independent News Desk, “News Feed – CNN: Ukraine Starts ‘Shaping Operations’ 
for Counteroffensive,” Kyiv Independent (website), May 12, 2023, https://kyivindependent.com/cnn 
-ukraine-starts-shaping-operations-for-counteroffensive/.
36.  Jack Watling, “Commentary – Ukraine’s Counteroffensive Begins: Shall the Leopards Break Free?,” 
RUSI (website), June 14, 2023, https://www.rusi.org/explore-our-research/publications/commentary/ukraines 
-counteroffensive-begins-shall-leopards-break-free.
--- 페이지 11 ---
In Focus
Halem  31
a logistics redistribution. This change creates additional failure points 
in the system. Defensive forces in fixed positions receive less materiel.  
Mobile reserves are exposed to long-range strikes with outsized impact, 
as incidents like the Makiivka Strike demonstrate.37 Moreover, C2 nodes must 
be light and mobile, or very well hardened, either requiring more defensive 
resources or increasing the cognitive load on commanders.
The Russian logistical system was likely more exposed to pressure than other 
alternatives because of its lack of truck-based transports, manpower-intensive 
system, and emphasis on rail transport.38 Yet, the United States has logistical 
chokepoints as well, in particular, a reliance upon large depots—admittedly 
much farther from the combat zone than the Russian system— 
and upon civilian transports that may not be available in wartime.39
Ukraine’s success has stemmed from an ability to leverage a small number 
of long-range precision weapons to hit high-value targets in the Russian 
rear area. Leveraging precision effects requires careful preparation to ensure, 
in the Ukrainian case, they can be applied through the creation of fires corridors 
to strike deep. In a competitive duel with Russia’s reconnaissance-strike 
complex, striking deep allows Ukraine to roll Russian forces back by creating 
C2 and logistical seams. Ideally, over time, this situation will enable 
a breakthrough and exploitation.
Implications for the US Army
While the Russia-Ukraine War is an illustrative case, it is unique  
in many respects. Both sides derive their doctrine from similar sources and  
employ similar or identical weapons. Neither side can break the other’s  
integrated air defense network—Ukraine for lack of modern airframes, 
Russia for lack of enough precision-guided munitions—meaning deep strike 
is primarily a missile-based phenomenon. Russia and Ukraine also field  
armies with far less overall experience than anticipated before the war,  
having gone through several rounds of mobilization, making logistical 
and command centralization all the more appealing and strikes against 
logistics and C2 nodes more fruitful. Russia has refused to deploy
37.  Guardian Staff and Agencies, “Explainer – Makiivka Strike: What We Know about the Deadliest 
Attack on Russian Troops since Ukraine War Began,” Guardian (website), January 4, 2023,  
https: // www.theguardian.com/ world/ 2023/ jan/ 04/ makiivka-strike-what-we-know-about-the-deadliest 
-attack-on-russian-troops-since-ukraine-war-began.
38.  Alex Vershinin, “Feeding the Bear: A Closer Look at Russian Army Logistics and the Fait Accompli,” 
War on the Rocks (website), November 23, 2021, https://warontherocks.com/2021/11/feeding-the-bear 
-a-closer-look-at-russian-army-logistics/.
39.  Michael Trimble and Jobie Turner, “Asymmetric Advantage or Achilles Heel: Logistics in the  
U.S. Military,” Strategy Bridge (website), June 14, 2022, https://thestrategybridge.org/the-bridge/2022/6/14 
/asymmetric-advantage-or-achilles-heel-logistics-in-the-us-military.
--- 페이지 12 ---
32  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
kinetic anti-satellite interceptors, nor is there much available in the open 
source about satellite jamming, an undeniably relevant factor in future wars. 
Ukraine and Russia both defend some of the world’s most extensive ground 
fortifications—in the Ukrainian case, built over years of positional conflict 
in the Donbas. The US Army should not plan to fight the last war, let alone 
a war it has not actively fought.
Ukrainian and Russian UAS-enabled RSCs, however, and the need 
to conduct deep strikes to attrit an RSC, will only intensify over time 
as RSCs become more sophisticated. The US Army will likely face near-peer 
conventional adversaries with a distributed reconnaissance-strike complex that 
has multiple redundancies and, critically, includes AI to shorten the kill chain.40
This future RSC will need to be tugged in or disrupted to create opportunities 
for US land, air, and sea power to deliver the heavy capabilities needed to break 
an enemy position and achieve a combat decision. The Ukrainians do not face 
an abstract network that they must attrit but a specific, geographically 
textured adversary they must hollow out. Much in the way Russian forces 
that mass too early are extraordinarily vulnerable to a precision strike, 
so too are the Ukrainian forces at risk. The United States will face a similar 
type of threat, albeit at a greater degree of sophistication. If it seeks 
to mass, it must reduce the enemy RSC’s ability to hit concentrated forces— 
otherwise, the combat power that mass generates will be wasted.
From this reality stems the need for a fluid reconnaissance-strike 
complex that includes a distributed ISR system, one that enables the specific 
application of precision effects to hit RSC nodes in the enemy’s depths.  
Perhaps penetrators can help, whether this assistance entails an electromagnetic 
pulse warhead that can knock out jammers or, in the future, directed-energy 
weapons used for air defense or a fires corridor akin to that of Ukraine. 
Unmanned aerial systems will almost certainly be part of the solution. 
As commercial UAS technology develops, small, cheap UAS hardened 
against some electronic effects will proliferate. Artificial intelligence and edge 
computing will reduce UAS reliance on GPS and human control, while 
smaller, higher-quality optics will increase the ability of unmanned aerial 
systems to operate undetected and identify targets at range. Satellites will also 
matter, especially microsatellites with advanced sensors.
The technology, however, is not the point. The Russia-Ukraine War  
demonstrates the intensity—in materiel, manpower, and cognitive load—
40.  Amy J. Nelson and Gerald L. Epstein, “Commentary – The PLA’s Strategic Support Force 
and AI Innovation,” Brookings (website), December 23, 2022, https://www.brookings.edu/articles 
/the-plas-strategic-support-force-and-ai-innovation-china-military-tech/.
--- 페이지 13 ---
In Focus
Halem  33
of combat between adversaries with actual RSCs, even if both parties 
suffer from obvious technical, organizational, and logistical limitations.  
In a conflict with a near-peer adversary, the United States will likely face 
a reconnaissance-strike complex with greater range, comprehensiveness, 
and scale. This network will likely involve units and positions on enemy territory.  
Ukraine, even with limits on its ability to engage targets within Russia, 
has managed to fight effectively, but it has been nearly helpless against 
the Russian strategic-strike campaign. The United States is unlikely to face 
an adversary it can defeat absent some consideration of strikes on its territory, 
at least if it hopes to win on a timescale more closely approximating months 
or years than a decade. Two equally sophisticated RSCs, then, can increase 
the likelihood of mutual territorial strikes and the potential for escalation.
Harry Halem
Harry Halem is a senior fellow at Yorktown Institute and a doctoral candidate 
in the Department of International Relations at the London School of Economics. 
His research focuses on the future of conflict, naval strategy, and historical 
conceptions of operational art.
--- 페이지 14 ---
34  Parameters 53(4) Winter 2023–24
Selected Bibliography
Biddle, Stephen. Military Power: Explaining Victory and Defeat in Modern Battle.
Woodstock, UK: Princeton University Press, 2004.
Freedman, Lawrence. Ukraine and the Art of Strategy. New York: Oxford
University Press, 2019.
Isserson, Georgii Samoilovich. “The Foundation of Deep Strategy.”
In Deep Operations: Theoretical Approaches to Fighting Deep, ed. Jack D. Kem. 
Fort Leavenworth, KS: Army University Press, 2021.
Krepinevich, Andrew F. Maritime Warfare in a Mature Precision-Strike Regime.
Washington, DC: Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 2014.
Sterling, Michael J. Soviet Reactions to NATO’s Emerging Technologies
for Deep Attack. Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation, August 1985.
Vego, Milan. Recce-Strike Complexes in Soviet Theory and Practice.
Fort Leavenworth, KS: Soviet Army Studies Office, June 1990.
Watling, Jack, and Nick Reynolds. Meatgrinder: Russian Tactics in the Second
Year of Its Invasion of Ukraine. London: Royal United Services Institute 
(RUSI), May 19, 2023.
Zabrodskyi, Mykhaylo et al. Preliminary Lessons in Conventional Warfighting
from Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine: February–July 2022. London: RUSI, 
November 2022.
41
Disclaimer: Articles, reviews and replies, and book reviews published in Parameters are unofficial expressions of opinion. The views  
and opinions expressed in Parameters are those of the authors and are not necessarily those of the Department of Defense,  
the Department of the Army, the US Army War College, or any other agency of the US government. The appearance of external  
hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of Defense of the linked websites or the information, products,  
or services contained therein. The Department of Defense does not exercise any editorial, security, or other control over the  
information you may find at these locations.
--- 페이지 15 ---
Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further
reproduction prohibited without permission.