제목: "The Rifle is the Symbol": The AK-47 in Global South Iconography
저자: Brandon Kinney

목차:
- ``The Rifle is the Symbol'': The AK-47 in Global South Iconography (페이지: 2)
  - Revolutionary Cosmopolitanism (페이지: 9)
  - The Kalashnikov Spreads Past the Eastern Bloc (페이지: 13)
  - China (페이지: 15)
  - Palestine Liberation Organization (페이지: 19)
  - Cuba (페이지: 31)
  - Conclusion (페이지: 38)

--- 페이지 1 ---
"The Rifle is the Symbol": The AK-47 in Global South
Iconography
Brandon Kinney
Journal of World History, Volume 34, Number 2, June 2023, pp. 277-314
(Article)
Published by University of Hawai'i Press
DOI:
For additional information about this article
For content related to this article
https://doi.org/10.1353/jwh.2023.a902055
https://muse.jhu.edu/article/902055
https://muse.jhu.edu/related_content?type=article&id=902055
--- 페이지 2 ---
“The Riﬂe is the Symbol”: The AK-47
in Global South Iconography
BRANDON KINNEY
This article examines the relationship between Cold War national liberation
groups through their shared material and visual culture. Using China, Cuba,
and Palestinian groups as its case studies, it reveals how Third World
militants forged transnational associative networks in part through the
transmission of cultural productions that reflected common values,
assumptions, and metaphors. In Global South iconography, the AK-47
rifle became shorthand for a revolutionary transnationalism. The rifle is
among the most iconic images in the world, even among those who have never
seen one in person, and its use as a symbol is imbued with complex political
meaning. While artists, themes, and ideologies varied widely in revolutionary
art, the AK-47 was a metaphoric bridge between these groups and became a
focal point of imagery for national liberation and transnational solidarity.
Rather than demonstrating allegiance to the Soviet Union, the repetitious use
of the rifle in visual culture became a way for revolutionary groups to stake
out place as an imagined community across the Global South.
KEYWORDS: visual culture, iconography, transnational, Global South,
material culture, Palestine Liberation Organization.
T
HE AK-47 rifle, also known as the Kalashnikov, is among the most
iconic symbols in the world. With its banana-shaped magazine
“that curves forward like a menacing talon,” a gas tube that runs parallel
above the barrel, its distinct front-sight post, and its wooden
handguard, just the last few inches of the rifle are enough to make
it recognizable, even to those who have never seen one in person.1
1 Doug Struck, “AK-47: Military Weapon Draws Fire and Support: Semiautomatics
Used for War, Crime, Fun,” The Baltimore Sun (Baltimore, MD), March 19, 1989, A1. For
the purposes of this article, the terms “AK-47,” “Kalashnikov,” and “rifle” will be used
interchangeably. When a depicted rifle is not from the AK-47 family, it will be noted.
Journal of World History, Vol. 34, No. 2
© 2023 by University of Hawai‘i Press
277
--- 페이지 3 ---
Behind the Kalashnikov’s violent legacy lies a complex history which
includes the creation of an international icon on the same level as
Coca-Cola or McDonald’s. Like the United States, the Soviets during
the Cold War saw the reception of their commodities as crucial to their
foreign policy goals and evidence of the desirability of their ideological
worldview. The ultimate hope was that a reliable ally or standardization
along the Soviet model would follow. Yet the spread of fast food or rifles
was not as simple as moving commodities. These objects were imbued
with deep and contested political meanings by both producers and
receivers.2 Much like Coca-Cola or McDonald’s, those on the receiving
end of Soviet arms shipments were not passive recipients and often used
these items for their own purposes, often subverting its intended
function as a tool of Soviet conformity.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, one journalist claimed that the
rifle was now “simply there . . . stripped of its ideological weight”
without the Soviet Empire existing alongside it. Yet the presence of the
Kalashnikov was not evidence that its holder was “under the thumb of
the ‘Big Red Machine.’”3 Instead, revolutionaries fashioned it as a
symbol of transnational unity in ways that often excluded the Soviet
Union entirely. To those in the developing world, it was not merely a
“Red” or “Russian” weapon (and often they received their rifles from a
third party which sometimes included the United States) but a weapon
that might be used in the decolonizing world to challenge imperial
power - including Soviet imperial power. For many who carried it, the
rifle had always been stripped of its Soviet ideological weight. Instead,
its symbolism acted as a type of “social glue” that bound the imagined
2 The spread of McDonald’s and Coca-Cola was often a flashpoint in local culture wars
of Western Europe, where it was framed as a surrogate for American domination. For the
manifold meanings behind Coca-Cola and McDonald’s as both physical products and
symbols, along with the ways in which its recipients divorced the meaning from the object,
see Daniel Miller, “Coca-Cola: A Black Sweet Drink from Trinidad,” in Material Cultures:
Why Some Things Matter, ed. Miller (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998) and
Richard F. Kuisel, Seducing the French: The Dilemma of Americanization (Berkley: University
of California Press, 1993).
3 Charles M. Madigan, “The Peasant’s Rifle at 50,” Chicago Tribune (Chicago, IL), June
18, 1997, 4. Western contemporaries often used the appearance of the rifle as an
approximation for Soviet (or communist) control. Even when reporting on the Kalashnikov
in the hands of militants, including the aftermath of the Black September terrorist attack at
the 1972 Olympics, American journalists most often used qualifiers such as “Soviet rifle.”
For examples, see Eric Pace, “Soviet Rifle Becomes Best-Seller in Arab World: Popularized
by Commandos,” The New York Times (New York, NY), November 3, 1973, 10; Clyde
Haberman, “Rifle of Soviet Type Tied to Bus Ambush,” The New York Times (New York,
NY), December 6, 1979, A23; “Munich Says Guerillas Had Soviet Guns,” The New York
Times (New York, NY), September 15, 1972, 2.
278
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 4 ---
revolutionary community to a common cause.4 The political meaning
of the Kalashnikov, appearing in countless artistic works as a symbol
rather than a physical object, reified this transnational community. As
a metaphor, it was the physical manifestation of revolution.
Historians have thoroughly examined the cosmopolitan nature of
revolutionary groups and their contribution to the “Third World
project,” in which political elites across the decolonizing world actively
sought cooperation with one another to advance an ambitious agenda
of political and economic sovereignty and a reordered world that broke
the East-West dichotomy.5 Groundbreaking works by Vijay Prashad
and Odd Arne Westad tell an international history of the Cold War
period by moving past the bipolar world and analyzing the “Third
World” as a shared ideology and a political project in its own right.6
Other historians have sought to find the ideological locus of this
Global South cosmopolitanism. Piero Gleijeses’s thorough work on
Cuba’s forays into Africa uncovered how Fidel Castro imagined Cuba
at the center of this movement, believing that it had “a special role to
play on [the Third World’s] behalf.”7 Anne Garland Mahler’s analysis
of the Cuba-led Tricontinental Conference suggests that the island
nation heavily influenced radical thought and the Global South
political imaginary (and black internationalism more specifically)
through the end of the twentieth century.8 Two recent edited volumes
seek to restore Latin America to the center of this cosmopolitan world.
Latin America and the Global Cold War asserted that Latin America had
a “central, even primordial, contribution to the forging of a Third
World global ideology.”9 The second volume, Toward a Global History
of Latin America’s Revolutionary Left, analyzes the transnational
4 Jennifer Van Horn, The Power of Objects in Eighteenth-Century British America
(University of North Carolina Press, 2017); Benedict Anderson, Imagined Communities:
Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism (New York, NY: Verso, 1983).
5 In this article, the terms Global South and Third World are used interchangeably.
This author does not consider “Third World” to be a disparaging term, because the historical
actors in question embraced the political concept and did not use “Third World” as a
pejorative.
6 Vijay Prashad, The Darker Nations: A People’s History of the Third World (New York:
New Press, 2007), xv–xvii and Odd Arne Westad, The Global Cold War: Third World
Interventions and the Making of Our Times (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005),
2–4.
7 Piero Gleisjeses, Conflicting Missions: Havana, Washington, and Africa, 1959–1976
(Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2002), 377.
8 Anne Garland Mahler, From the Tricontinental to the Global South: Race, Radicalism,
and Transnational Solidarity (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2018), 10–14, 33.
9 Thomas C. Field, Jr., Stella Krepp, and Vanni Pettina, eds., Latin America and the
Global Cold War (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2020), 7.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
279
--- 페이지 5 ---
connections between Latin America and the world and the region’s
impact on “a global revolutionary project.”10
Several historians have also identified Algeria as the embodiment of
“Third Worldism,” in Robert Malley’s words. Matthew Connelly
argued that Algerians were integral to challenging the East-West
international system and that the National Liberation Front in Algeria
attempted to internationalize its independence struggle and take
advantage of its “position at the crest of a wave of anticolonialism.”11
Jeffery James Byrne built on Connelly’s thesis by arguing that Algeria
laid at the heart of this “Third Worldist diplomacy” and epitomized
“the Third World’s promise of a third way.”12 Paul Thomas Chamberlin
shifted the focus of Third World cosmopolitanism to the Middle East,
arguing instead that the Palestine Liberation Organization was the first
to “seize this transnational space using a revolutionary set of tactics and
strategies” and emerged as “the world’s first globalized insurgency and
became a seminal influence on other rebellions in the following
decades.”13
These previous studies on the cosmopolitan nature of revolutionary
groups have tended to focus on the realm of diplomatic history and high
politics, leaving their cultural productions and visual works under-
examined. Rather than searching for the locus of the “Third World
project,” this article instead examines the connections between
national liberation groups using an interdisciplinary approach. It
focuses on the shared visual culture between these national liberation
groups. Propaganda art not only reflect the values, attitudes, and
assumptions of a particular community (even a transnational one) but
played a complex role as a tool in helping to constitute them.14
10 Tanya Harmer and Alberto Martin Alvarez, eds., Toward a Global History of Latin
America’s Revolutionary Left (Gainesville, FL: University of Florida Press, 2021), 1.
11 Matthew Connelly, A Diplomatic Revolution: Algeria’s Fight for Independence and the
Origins of the Post-Cold War Era (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2002), 5–10.
12 Jeffrey James Byrne, Mecca of Revolution: Algeria, Decolonization, and the Third World
Order (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2016), 1–3.
13 Paul Thomas Chamberlin, The Global Offensive: The United States, the Palestine
Liberation Organization, and the Making of the Post-Cold War Order (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2012), 3.
14 For an example on the study of transnational material and visual culture in the
decolonizing world, see Ruth Craggs and Claire Wintle, eds., Cultures of Decolonisation:
Transnational Production and Practices, 1945–70 (Manchester: Manchester University Press,
2015). On the potential for an object to be an “active agent in social life” and the agency of
material and visual artifacts, see Karen Harvey, ed., History and Material Culture: A Student’s
Guide to Approaching Alternative Sources (London: Routledge, 2018); Bruno Latour,
Pandora’s Hope: Essays on the Reality of Science Studies (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press, 1999); Bill Brown, “Thing Theory,” Critical Inquiry 28, no. 1 (2001): 1–22; Van Horn,
280
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 6 ---
Revolutionary art served a crucial role as sites of reflection by mediating
social relationships and fostering these transnational associations
through metaphor and shared values. The image of the AK-47 helped
to concretize these intellectual and cultural networks and formulate a
transnational identity.15 By closely scrutinizing these cultural produc-
tions, we may broaden our understanding of the place of these
transnational groups in the global Cold War.
The AK-47 itself has itself been the subject of varied studies by
scholars, attesting to the object’s pervasive global status and
international impact. Journalist C.J. Chivers’ The Gun stands as the
definitive account on the mass production, distribution, and early use
of the rifle, but the rifle’s cultural properties largely fall outside of the
work’s purview. When authors have dived into the cultural sphere of
the Kalashnikov, it is almost entirely dedicated to how the rifle had
embedded itself into local national culture, including American
culture, rather than how it was used in transnational contexts. Scholars
have focused on how the rifle grafted onto cultural norms and became a
tool of “social reliance” in Pakistan and Afghanistan, altered social
relations and dowries among the pastoralists of Uganda, transformed
the social and political functions of institutions in Liberia, Siera Leone,
and Yemen, represented “respect, firepower, and rebellion” in
American rap music, and became a focal point in the American
culture wars over gun rights.16
While these scholars have uncovered the multiple ways the
Kalashnikov has become embedded in national cultures, previous
studies continue to treat the story of the rifle as a primarily North-to-
South story: the physical object arrives in a country from the Global
North and spreads like a “virus,” infecting the nation’s institutions and
Miller, ed., Materiality (Durham, NC: Duke University Press: 2005); and Alfred Gell, Art and
Agency: An Anthropological Theory (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1998).
15 For the ability for material culture to offer a unique perspective on the construction of
identity and cultural meanings, see Leora Auslander and Tara Zahra, eds., Objects of War:
The Material Culture of Conflict and Displacement (Cornell University Press) and Keith
Moxey, Michael Ann Holly, Norman Bryson, eds., Visual Culture: Images and Interpretations
(Hanover, NH: University Press of New England, 1994). For the importance of objects and
metaphors as tools in social and cultural projects, see Nicholas J. Saunders, ed., Icons of
Power: Feline Symbolism in the Americas (London: Routledge, 1998); and Saunders, Trench
Art: Materialities and Memories of War (Oxford: Berg, 2003).
16 Christopher Carr, Kalashnikov Culture: Small Arms Proliferation and Irregular Warfare
(Westport, CT: Praeger Security International, 2008), 53–85, 99–112; Larry Kahaner, AK-
47: The Weapon that Changed the Face of War (John Wiley & Sons: 2007), 55–102, 169–186;
and Michael Hodges, AK47: The Story of a Gun (San Francisco: MacAdam Cage, 2007), 26,
82–109, 163, 186–210.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
281
--- 페이지 7 ---
culture.17 These analyses, however, largely stop at national borders
rather than demonstrating how the Kalashnikov’s cultural and visual
power extended across the Global South. When examining the AK-
47’s cultural impact in the international sphere, these studies have
tended to focus on it from the point of view of Western-centered
consumer culture: how the rifle appears in television, movies, music,
and consumer products like rifle-shaped Vodka bottles. Rather than
taking for granted that the Kalashnikov was an “icon of Third World
revolution,” this article purports to be the first study dedicated to the
analyzing just how this icon became imbued with revolutionary ideals
on the terms of those reproducing it, eschewing the framework of
Western culture, media, and consumerism.18 This study travels across
three regions of the Cold War world, examining the shared visual
culture present in Chinese, Cuban, and Palestinian art. While being
prolific in producing propaganda art, these three groups hold a
significant place in the global history of the Cold War as entities that
envisioned themselves at the center of the Third World struggle.
The Kalashnikov’s power as a symbol was in its multivocality. Art
that included the rifle often conveyed contradictory meanings. For
some Palestinian nationalist groups, the AK-47 could symbolize
verdancy and growth or ferocity and destruction. It was at home
alongside doves and sprouting flowers as well as fire and calls to arms.
Marxist-Leninist groups found they could place it into the hands of
both the idyllic farmer and the industrial worker or use it to bind the
two together as signal of transnational class solidarity. Cuban artists
paired the international-facing rifle with indigenous symbols. Chinese
propaganda framed the Indochinese struggle against the imperialism as
an international one by emphasizing Chinese-made Kalashnikovs in
the hands of resistance fighters. Yet among the consistencies in this art
was the rifle as a manifestation for the shared struggle of the Global
South and its use to convey the presence of a revolutionary community.
The aesthetic arrangement of art work may have changed from group to
17 Hodges, 189 and Kahaner, 100. It is beyond the scope of this article to examine the
material culture and “social life” of the physical Soviet AK-47. On the subversion of the
rifle’s normative function as a tool of Soviet proletarian equality in national contexts, see
Paul Graves-Brown, “Avtomat Kalashnikova,” Journal of Material Culture 12, no. 3 (2007),
285–286, 299–301. Younes Saramifar examined the physical AK-47 through the lens of
material culture with Hezbollah militants, including how the fighters crafted their
subjectivities within the material culture of militancy as well as the physical relationship
between a militant and his gun. Younes Saramifar, “Enchanted by the AK-47: Contingency
of Body and the Weapon Among Hezbollah Militants,” Journal of Material Culture 23, no. 1
(2018), 83–99.
18 Kahaner, 5.
282
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 8 ---
group (or even from faction to faction within the Palestine Liberation
Organization), yet the rifle elevated these seemingly dissimilar pieces
into the realm of shared cultural production.
The creative process is an active one, and the artist is embedded in
the social,
political,
and
cultural
contexts
of
their
imagined
FIGURE 1. “One Cause – One Enemy,” (1975) PLO poster by Ismail
Shammout; retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project Archives, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/one-cause-one-enemy. Liberation Graphics
Collection of Palestine Posters.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
283
--- 페이지 9 ---
community. From the selection of symbols and objects to the colors
used, the artist makes meaningful choices based on what they want to
communicate and what emotions or aspirations they want to convey.
Visual culture represented important tools of social understanding
precisely because of these choices. The repetitious use of the AK-47
across great physical distances was a crucial part of legitimating the
collective identity, because its symbolism was a meaningful part of the
shared assumptions understood by its intended audience.19
It
represented the common beliefs of these new associative networks.20
Thus, as a political symbol, the rifle became a crucial part of
revolutionary identity. A mid-1970s poster extoling solidarity between
Palestinians and Lebanese made this connection literal: a Palestinian
and Lebanese man embrace each other with one arm while they hold a
single Kalashnikov over their head. As a revolutionary icon, the rifle
connects these two peoples in “one cause” against “one enemy” in
Lebanon (see Figure 1).21
REVOLUTIONARY COSMOPOLITANISM
National liberation groups across the world saw themselves as but once
piece of the larger global struggle that broke through the dichotomous
Cold War world. As historian Paul Thomas Chamberlin put it, they
were “a sprawling constellation of revolutionary networks” and “an
international force . . . [and] global offensive against the bastions of
state power in the Cold War system.”22 It was along these intellectual
networks across the Global South that the Kalashnikov’s image (as
opposed to the physical object, which most often flowed from the
Global North) moved. The global struggle was, at its heart, an anti-
imperialist challenge to the East-West framework of the Cold War. The
members of this transnational community understood their ambiguous
place in this dichotomous world through camaraderie across the Global
South. Utilizing the imagery of the Kalashnikov for the construction of
19 Christopher Tilley, Material Culture and Text: The Art of Ambiguity (London:
Routledge, 1991), 123–126.
20 For the importance of networks to forming the social and actor-network theory, see
Latour, Reassembling the Social: An Introduction to Actor-Network Theory (Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2005).
21 Ismail Shammout, One Cause – One Enemy, c. 1975, Poster, 80  55 cm, Palestine
Poster Project Archives (hereafter cited as PPPA), accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/one-cause-one-enemy.
22 Chamberlin, 5.
284
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 10 ---
a transnational imagined community was a part of staking out a place
for themselves in the Cold War world.
Cuba first attempted to harness these disparate revolutionary
sentiments with the Tricontinental Conference in Havana in January,
1966.23 Just four years before, at the Plaza de la Revolución, Fidel
Castro proclaimed to a million Cubans that “Cuba and Latin America
are a part of the [revolutionary] world.”24 Over five hundred delegates
from across eighty-two nations attended the Tricontinental Con-
ference in 1966, and from this conference the Organization of
Solidarity with the Peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America
(OSPAAAL) was born. OSPAAAL quickly became “the driving force
of international political radicalism and the primary engine of its
cultural production around the globe.”25 It symbolized a revolutionary
intellectual movement, the purpose of which was to “outline a
programme of joint struggle against imperialism, as well as to fortify,
increase and co-ordinate the militant solidarity which should exist
between the peoples of the three Continents.”26 The organization
published not only solidarity posters but also a monthly magazine
(Tricontinental) in Arabic, French, English, and Spanish from 1966 to
1990.27 Through film, magazines, and posters, OSPAAAL “globalize[d]
this discourse,” and its propaganda extoling camaraderie often made use
of the Kalashnikov as a symbol of that solidarity that brought
traditional
cultural
symbolism
together
with
the
international
revolutionary movement.28
Across the Atlantic, the Palestine Liberation Organization was also
envisioning itself as part of a larger, militant front standing against
imperialism. Founded in 1964, the PLO came to be an umbrella
organization that coordinated between a number of smaller factions,
such as Arab Liberation Front (ALF), the Palestinian National
Liberation Movement (Fatah), the Popular Front for the Liberation of
23 The first major conference of decolonizing powers was the Bandung Conference in
1955. The Tricontinental Conference was a spiritual successor but also in many ways a major
break from the Bandung Conference because of its dedication to “militant solidarity.” For
more information on the Bandung Conference, see Luis Elava, ed., Bandung, Global History,
and International Law (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2017).
24 Harmer and Alvarez, eds., 1.
25 Mahler, 21.
26 Ibid., 72.
27 Lincoln Cushing, Revolución: Cuban Poster Art (San Francisco: Chronicle Books,
2003), 10.
28 Mahler, 81. The phenomenon of Cuban art utilizing traditional imagery was explored
in Cushing, Revolución, 14. Cushing linked the weaponry with modernity rather than
transnationalism.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
285
--- 페이지 11 ---
Palestine (PFLP), and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of
Palestine (DFLP). In August 1967, the same year that it joined the
PLO, Fatah began publishing a series of pamphlets under the title
Revolutionary Studies and Experiences. These pamphlets were devoted to
explaining the Palestinian’s revolutionary policy positions and their
connection to other struggles, including pamphlets that focused on the
revolutions in China, Vietnam, and Cuba. Through these pamphlets,
the Palestinian revolutionaries portrayed themselves as a “fundamen-
tally cosmopolitan organization with spiritual ties to revolutionaries
around the Third World,” in the words of Chamberlin. In a pamphlet
entitled The Relationship of the Palestinian Revolution with the Arab
Revolution and the World Revolution, Fatah further reinforced links
between the Palestinian movement and the Global South’s disparate
movements while resisting connections to the pan-Arab movement.29
The Palestine Liberation Organization’s PLO Bulletin opened its
issues with a section hailing solidarity as a “weapon” for the “world
forces of liberation, of which we are proud to be a part.” Much like
Tricontinental, the PLO often published their materials with multiple
languages to broaden its intended audience. Most periodicals from the
PLO dedicated entire sections to “Solidarity News,” where they both
received and asserted companionship with the rest of the “revolu-
tionary vanguard.”30 A separate Palestinian publication, the PFLP
Bulletin, sent its “most revolutionary greetings to the people of Cuba,”
welcomed the victory of the People’s Movement for the Liberation of
Angola as “one of all national liberation movements,” and asserted that
China’s “revolution’s victory will remain a guide to our struggle against
imperialism and its tools.”31 The quick succession of these statements
(they all appear on a single page) contributed to a reader’s ability to
image themselves not simply in a limited community in thrall to
governments in Cairo or Moscow but as part of a greater ideological
movement with peers in Havana and Hanoi.
As these revolutionaries increasingly identified their own struggles
with that of the broader Third World, they came to embrace a shared
set of symbols and imagery, such as the raised fist or the AK-47. The art
of these groups was widely disseminated from the United States to
Lebanon to Peking. As a broad intellectual community, they recognized
29 Chamberlin, 20.
30 Palestine Liberation Organization (hereafter cited as PLO), PLO Bulletin 4, no. 19
(November 1978), 2; PLO, PLO Bulletin 6, no. 21 (November 1980), 2, 31–34; PLO, PLO
Bulletin 6, no. 22 (December 1980), 2, 33–35.
31 Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (hereafter cited as PFLP), PFLP Bulletin
no. 19–20 (September/December 1975), 14.
286
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 12 ---
the Kalashnikov as shorthand for these transnational connections. It
was not just a symbol of their own revolution but the global revolution
(inseparable as it was from their own struggles), and artists deployed it
in this fashion. Taking their written and visual works together,
instances in which these groups mention “revolution” were not
confined to their own borders but extended to the entire Global South.
To the revolutionary world, even as a symbol, the Kalashnikov was as
potent as the literature they circulated. Regardless of the contingent
ways in which it was utilized artistically, the Kalashnikov remained the
manifestation of their revolutionary solidarity.
While this article focuses on three national liberation groups in
particular, the Kalashnikov’s image could be found throughout the
revolutionary world.32 North Vietnamese propaganda called on the
revolutionary forces of the world to “emulate” their fight against
America in a poster depicting a Kalashnikov sprouting from a destroyed
United States warplane, signifying the success of world revolution over
the forces of imperialism.33 An Armenian poster used the rifle to
symbolize “the partnership of the oppressed peoples” and “their
revolutionary struggle against colonialism.”34 The Young Lords Party,
an organization in the United States dedicated to Third World
solidarity generally and Puerto Rican independence specifically, made
the Kalashnikov a central theme of their cultural productions because
of its revolutionary symbolism. The Young Lords Party’s primary
publication, Palante, included drawings of activists wielding the
Kalashnikov and the silhouette of the rifle at the end of each issue,
where it was purposefully placed alongside the Young Lords’ platform
calling for “liberation of all Third World people” and “international
unity.” While the Young Lords themselves were not generally armed
with Kalashnikovs, their cultural productions made consistent use of
the rifle, further attesting to its cultural power and ability to bind the
militant revolutionary community together even in areas where the
rifle had not yet saturated the market.35
32 This article does not claim to be an exhaustive look into Third World revolutionary
groups.
33 Susan Martin, Decades of Protest: Political Posters from the United States, Viet Nam,
Cuba 1965–1975 (Santa Monica, CA: Smart Art Press, 1996), 64.
34 Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia, From Palestine to Armenia,
1985, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on October 10, 2021, https://www.palestineposterpro
ject.org/poster/from-palestine-to-armenia.
35 Young Lords Organization, Palante 2, vol. 2 (May 1970), 7, 19. The Kalashnikov was
also prevalent in Young Lords Party iconography, including a button with the design of the
Puerto Rican flag overlaid with the rifle. For further examples, see Young Lords
Organization, Palante 2, no. 4 (June 1970), cover.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
287
--- 페이지 13 ---
THE KALASHNIKOV SPREADS PAST THE EASTERN BLOC
The AK-47, short for Avtomat Kalashnikova, was developed by the
Soviet Union in 1947 in a small city east of Moscow.36 Shortly after its
approval, the Soviets began manufacturing the rifle in Izhevsk, because
they saw its massive potential as a tool of standardization within the
Eastern bloc. After the creation of the Warsaw Pact, a mutual defense
agreement in 1955, the Soviet Union subsidized plants in Bulgaria, East
Germany, Hungary, Poland, and Romania for the purposes of
manufacturing the Kalashnikov. Its first uses were for oppression,
not liberation. With the aid of the Kalashnikov, Soviet divisions put
down a small uprising in Berlin in 1953 and crushed a larger rebellion in
Hungary in 1956. The world got its first view of the Kalashnikov when
Life Magazine photographer Michael Rougier snapped a photo of
Hungarian rebel Joszef Tibor Fejes carrying the rifle.37
The Kalashnikov spread like wildfire outside of the eastern bloc.
Members of the Warsaw Pact provided material knowledge and
weaponry to its allies (or enemies of enemies) in the hopes of thwarting
Western designs throughout the world. Under Nikita Khrushchev, the
Soviet Union made a sustained foray into the Middle East by organizing
an arms sale (via Czechoslovakia) to Egypt and Gamal Abdel Nasser.
Arms deals to Syria, Iraq, and elsewhere followed in short order. The
USSR’s rifle spread into Asia when the Soviets shared technology with
China in 1955 and North Korea a few years later.38 Before long, the
Kalashnikov
followed
a
complex
web
throughout
the
world,
represented in proxy wars and violent confrontations from Tanzania
and Yemen to Cuba and California. By the 1980s, Soviet AKs sent to
Nicaragua were being used to help train guerrillas in El Salvador under
Cuban tutelage. Arms shipments from Libya outfitted the Provisional
Irish Republican Army. Even the United States was supplying anti-
Soviet guerillas
in Afghanistan through neighboring Pakistan.
Violence in Afghanistan, South Africa, and Ethiopia featured the
Kalashnikov on both sides of the conflict.39
36 C. J. Chivers, The Gun (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2011), 201–262.
37 Ibid., 240.
38 Ibid., 13–17, 217–218.
39 “Kampala Begins to Suffer from a Liberation Hangover,” The Guardian (London,
UK), April 21, 1979, 6; Christopher S. Wren, “A Kalashnikov is a Status Symbol in Yemen,”
The New York Times (New York, NY), February 26, 1979, A3; Haberman, A23; Roger Simon,
“One Doesn’t Expect to see AK-47 as Part of America’s Landscape,” The Baltimore Sun
(Baltimore, MD), January 29, 1989, 1B.
288
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 14 ---
While the Soviet Union initially hoped that the spread of the
Kalashnikov would encourage standardization along the Soviet model,
in actuality the recipients of these rifles exerted considerable agency
over their own affairs and resisted becoming steadfast clients of either
Western or Soviet camps. Within five years of the Soviets furnishing
China with the rifle’s technological specifications, the Chinese and
Soviet friendship fractured over ideological differences.40 While both
nations vied for a relationship with the Vietnamese by supplying the
them in their struggle against the United States, many Vietnamese
elites continued to see the connections with the Chinese as
transactional and short-term. The Vietnamese benefitted from playing
one power against the other in order to fight against Western
imperialism and, once the United States withdrew from Saigon, the
Vietnamese distanced themselves from the Chinese in favor of
improved relations with the Soviets.41
Like China and Vietnam, even after Cuba received weapons
shipments and guidance from the Soviets, they retained considerable
latitude as actors in the Global South, often to the chagrin of the
Soviets. Fidel Castro, imagining Cuba at the center of the Third World
project, believed his nation (rather than the Soviet Union or China,
two great powers) would play a special place in the pantheon of Global
South revolution. The ways in which Cuba utilized the imagery of the
AK-47 in its art is especially substantial, because it reveals perhaps a
closer affinity felt between the Cuban artists and the Global South
rather than the Soviets. Though the choice between an alliance with
the Soviets and cultivating Third World relationships was not a binary
choice, Cuban artists appropriated the image of the Soviet Kalashnikov
for the purposes of tying themselves to the anti-imperialist world rather
than the Soviet one. The reproduction of the Kalashnikov’s image, by
all accounts, should have been more forcefully connected with their
ally, the Soviets. After all, the weapon originated from the Soviet
Union and could easily be considered a Soviet triumph. Yet when
Cuban art placed the rifle in the hands of a Mayan sculpture, it wasn’t
to cultivate followers or well-wishes for the Soviet Union. The repeated
appearances of the Soviet rifle in Cuban art instead pursued non-Soviet
ends and elided the rifle’s Soviet connections altogether.
40 Gregg A. Brazinsky, Winning the Third World: Sino-American Rivalry during the Cold
War (University of North Carolina Press, 2017), 232–233; Xiaobing Li, Building Ho’s Army:
Chinese Military Assistance to North Vietnam (Lexington, KY: University of Kentucky Press,
2021), 178–180.
41 Brazinsky, 246.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
289
--- 페이지 15 ---
Similarly, throughout the Arab world, nations and groups receiving
their weapons from the Soviets (or secondhand) also most often saw
these exchanges as transactional rather than ideological. They
understood that they would be using the weapons for their own local,
geopolitical needs rather than to fulfill an obligation to an imperial
power. Egypt and Iraq, for example, used arms shipments as a means of
playing the United States and Soviet Union against one another, and
the Soviet Union was often spurned when requesting naval bases or
increased political influence. Arab groups, including the PLO, who
received weapons routinely regarded their suppliers (including the
United States) with ambivalence at best and suspicion of “imperialism”
and “arrogance” at worst.42 For fighters and individuals getting their
weapons on the commercial market, which was frequent among owners
in the Arab world, the ideological distance from their supplier was even
greater.43 While the suppliers encouraged the use of these weapons in
China, Vietnam, Palestine, and Cuba, its normative function as a
Soviet (and sometimes Chinese) ideological tool was entirely
subverted.44
CHINA
Though present during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the AK-47
truly burst onto the international scene, as both a weapon and symbol,
during the Vietnam War. There, it gained the respect of American
soldiers as a “highly effective weapon” that could pin down an entire
company in the hands of just one guerilla. It also provided an image for
those across the globe who professed solidarity with the Vietnamese
revolutionaries. Groups from the Students for a Democratic Society in
the United States to the Arab Liberation Front to the Socialist Youth
42 “U.S. Aid Breeds Suspicion Among Afghan Rebel Groups,” Philadelphia Inquirer, 6
February 1985, 12-E; Andrew J. Pierre, The Global Politics of Arms Sales (Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1982), 154–174; David H. Goldberg and Paul Marantz, eds., The
Decline of the Soviet Union and the Transformation of the Middle East (Boulder, CO: Westview
Press, 1994), 157; Odd Arne Westad, The Global Cold War: Third World Interventions and the
Making of Our Times (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2005), 98; Rachel Bronson,
Thicker Than Oil: America’s Uneasy Partnership with Saudi Arabia (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2006), 71–80; Carol R. Savietz and Sylvia Woodby, Soviet-Third World
Relations (London: Routledge, 2019), 131–132.
43 Saramifar, 97.
44 The use of “Palestine” is meant to reflect the aspirations and point-of-view of the
artist and should not be taken as a normative claim on the contemporary conflict in the
Middle East.
290
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 16 ---
Alliance drew explicit connections between their own cause and that
of Vietnam with posters that utilized the Kalashnikov.45 Cambodia
featured the rifle prominently in a Cambodia-Vietnam friendship
monument built in in the 1970s in Phnom Penh.46
The most sustained support, however, came from the Chinese
government. The Chinese variant of the AK-47 was seemingly
ubiquitous throughout the ranks of the North Vietnamese and among
the guerillas of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam (NLF)
after China began arming the rebels in the mid-1960s. The Chinese
government also furnished the rebels with a variant of the Soviet SKS,
a semi-automatic rifle. As a result, the presence of the Kalashnikov and
SKS in Chinese anti-imperialist posters was typical. The rifles were
often the principal focus of the image and an attestation of the
Chinese-Vietnamese bond. By placing these Chinese-supplied rifles in
a dominant or raised position in their propaganda, Chinese artists were
suggesting their own participation in supporting the Vietnamese cause
(at a time of increased rivalry between the Chinese and Soviets).47
Since the rifles used by the North Vietnamese and NLF came from
China (as well as the Soviet Union), the posters were in essence
capturing an understated but undoubtedly transnational effort, with
the Chinese at the center of it. As the world’s insurgents looked to the
Vietnamese for inspiration and hope, China positioned itself as a leader
of the people’s revolution worldwide and the proper alternative to the
Soviet Union. Representations of the Kalashnikov in art supporting
the Vietnamese were representations of a Chinese ideological and
foreign policy victory.
Chinese artists throughout the late 1960s and early 1970s overtly
staked out China’s claim as the “back bone” of the Vietnamese struggle
in art that often created a focal point around the Kalashnikov. Several
posters depicted how the Chinese, armed with Kalashnikovs, were the
spiritual and materiel support of the North Vietnamese cause. For
instance, a poster published in 1965 depicts a Chinese soldier running a
45 Susan Martin, ed., Decade of Protest: Political Posters from the United States, Viet
Nam, Cuba, 1965–1975 (Santa Monica, CA: Smart Art Press, 1996), 18; Hassib al Jassem,
Lotta di Popolo Vince, c. 1970, Poster, 50  69.5 cm, PPPA, accessed online on July 13,
2020,
https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/lotta-di-popolo-vince;
Natheer
Nabaa, One Struggle – One Fight, c. 1975, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 9,
2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/one-struggle-one-fight.
46 Kimkong Heng, “Conflicting Historical Narratives are Divisive,” Khmer Times
(Phnom Penh, Cambodia), June 6, 2019, accessed online on July 20, 2020, https://www.
khmertimeskh.com/611327/conflicting-historical-narratives-are-divisive/.
47 Gregg A. Brazinsky, Winning the Third World: Sino-American Rivalry during the Cold
War (University of North Carolina Press, 2017), 232–233.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
291
--- 페이지 17 ---
cloth over the barrel of his rifle while two transparent guerillas look on
in determination, reinforcing the “international spirit” and Chinese
determination to “fight shoulder to shoulder with the Vietnamese
people.” The next year featured a poster of a Chinese soldier hoisting
his rifle into the air as he stands shoulder to shoulder with a farmer and
industrial worker as armed workers stand behind them in a show of
solidarity: “Seven hundred million Chinese people are the back bone of
the Vietnamese people.”48
Posters also illustrated Vietnamese guerrillas who stood at the ready
with their rifles or raised them high above their heads while in the
throes of a euphoric war cry of victory, urging them to “contribute to
the world’s people’s revolutionary movement” against the “American
bandits.”49 The Chinese government was, of course, underwriting this
international revolutionary movement with weaponry and solidarity,
with their rifle in the most prominent position. A 1970 poster out of
Shanghai more concretely depicted the pan-Asian unity that the
People’s Republic of China had hoped to forge around the Vietnam
war: a row of six fighters, male and female, representing various nations
of Asia, each armed with their bayoneted Kalashnikov and poised as if
ready to thrust: “Asian people unite to drive U.S. invaders out of Asia.”
The artist expressed a message of continental unity and illustrated the
Kalashnikov as a means to achieve these ends of solidarity and anti-
imperialism.50
As the American presence expanded into Laos and Cambodia,
Chinese support of international revolutionary solidarity broadened to
all of Indochina in a series of posters. Each poster of the series depicts
three men representing the nations of Cambodia, Vietnam, and Laos: a
fighter wearing a North Vietnamese military cap, a guerilla donning a
48 Zhongwen Li, Show International Spirit and Fight Shoulder to Shoulder with the
Vietnamese People, 1965, 53  72 cm, Poster, National Library of Australia, accessed online
on July 1, 2020, https://nla.gov.au/nla.obj-582745516/view; Zhongguo qi yi ren min shi Yuenan
ren min de jian qiang hou dun, 1966, Poster, 53  70 cm, National Library of Australia,
accessed online on July 8, 2020, https://nla.gov.au/nla.obj-582745097/view.
49 Zhou Ruizhuang, Yuenan renmin de fanmei douzheng shi dui shijie renmin geming yundong
de juda gongxian!, 1966, Poster, 13  18 cm, International Institute of Social History
(Amsterdam),
accessed
online
on
July
8,
2020,
https://hdl.handle.net/10622/
N30051003030902; Weng Yizhi, Tigao jingti, suishi zhunbei fensui Meiguo de qinlüe, 1965,
Poster, 13  18 cm, International Institute of Social History (Amsterdam), accessed online
on July 8, 2020, https://hdl.handle.net/10622/N30051003042923; Shitao Sun, Da dao
Meiguo qiand dao!, 1965, Poster, 75  50.5 cm, National Library of Australia, accessed online
on July 8, 2020, https://nla.gov.au/nla.obj-582745266/view.
50 Yazhou ren min tuan jie qi lai, ba Meiguo qin lue zhe cong Yazhou gan chu qu, 1970, Poster,
53  74.5 cm, National Library of Australia, accessed online on July 8, 2020, https://nla.gov.
au/nla.obj-582744710/view.
292
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 18 ---
leaf-covered helmet, and the third dressed in a wide-brimmed boonie
hat in all but one poster.51 In each of the posters in this series, the three
FIGURE 2. “American Imperialism Must Be Defeated,” (1970) Shanghai
revolutionary group of publishers. Reproduced with permission from the IISH/
Stephen Landsberger collection, CHINESEPOSTERS.NET, https://chine
seposters.net/posters/g2-24.
51 In each poster of this series, two of the men brandish an AK-47 while the man in the
helmet wields a SKS. Other weapons were present in propaganda throughout the Third
World, particularly in the 1960s before the Kalashnikov had completely saturated the
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
293
--- 페이지 19 ---
figures are equipped with Chinese weaponry: two with the AK-47 and
the third with a Chinese SKS rifle. The first in 1970 portrayed the three
figures in the heat of battle, with one of the fighters raising his
(Chinese) Kalashnikov in the air in order to rally those behind him to
fight on. The poster reads “American imperialism must be defeated!
The people of the whole world must be victorious!” It implored the
peoples of the world to rally towards the raised Kalashnikov in order to
“resolutely support the struggle of the three Indochinese nations” (see
Figure 2).52
Chinese solidarity with the “three Indochinese nations” was on
display the following year as well with a poster depicting the three men
standing in front of a red-tinted crowd. Two of the men (along with a
substantial portion of the crowd) hoist their AK-47s in a show of
victory: “The peoples of the three countries in Indochina must win,
American imperialism must be defeated!”53 A third poster along the
same theme shows the three men smiling as one thrusts his rifle into the
air: “The people do not fear the American imperialists, but the
American imperialists fear the people.”54 From the point of view of the
Chinese government and Chinese artists, the ideological and materiel
roots of Vietnam’s ultimate victory over the United States, which in
turn was itself a beacon to the peoples of the revolutionary world, were
Chinese in origin. In these and other posters, the Kalashnikov
conveyed the Third World’s revolution and Chinese sponsorship of it.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
As an organization made up of numerous factions and ideologies, the
art of the Palestine Liberation Organization naturally reflects diversity
in its thematic scope and artistic expression. Several themes were
especially prominent in Palestinian art in both nationalist and
Global South, but AK-47 by far the most prevalent due to its association with revolutionary
movements.
52 Mei diguozhuyi bi bai! Quan shijie renmin bi sheng! Jianjue zhichi Yindu Zhina sanguo
renminde kang Mei jiuguo zhanzheng!, 1970, Poster, 107  77 cm, International Institute of
Social History (Amsterdam), accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://search.iisg.amsterdam/
Record/1093311.
53 Yindu Zhina san guo ren min bi sheng, Mei di guo zhu yi bi bai!, 1971, Poster, 107 
77 cm, National Library of Australia, accessed online on July 8, 2020, https://catalogue.nla.
gov.au/Record/7497585.
54 Bushi renmin pa Mei di ershi Mei di pa renmin, 1971, Poster, 77  106 cm, International
Institute of Social History (Amsterdam), accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://hdl.handle.
net/10622/N30051002357751.
294
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 20 ---
transnational contexts: the importance of land and roots to sustaining
Palestinian identity, the search for legitimization among the world’s
nations, the hope for a prosperous future, liberation (including of
women) and, for the groups that aligned more closely with Marxist-
Leninist worldviews, the centrality of class and worldwide revolution.
Palestinian art attests to the multivocality of the Kalashnikov in global
revolutionary culture by appearing across this broad spectrum of
thematic messaging, factions, and artists in the PLO with the purpose of
tying the nationalist cause to the global revolution in pursuit of a
collective identity.
Few posters so acutely capture the importance of the Kalashnikov to
the revolutionary cause in the minds of Global South revolutionaries as
a series of posters released in 1984 and 1985 by Fatah to celebrate the
twentieth anniversary of the founding of the PLO. The posters not only
centered the Kalashnikov as “our way to triumph” and “legitimization”
but also highlighted that “pictures and posters” were central to
communicating “the tenants of the revolution.” Each juxtapose
Palestinian cultural icons, (the red, green, white, and black of the
Palestinian flag or a traditional kaffiyeh) with the Kalashnikov to put
their national revolution in a global context. The posters emphasize
that “the rifle is the symbol” and the means of legitimizing their fight
(see Figure 3).55 The stakes were clear for the Palestinians: in the fight
for global recognition and “the struggle against oppression every-
where,” the Kalashnikov was a means of legitimating the Global South
on the international stage.56
The various factions of the PLO regularly used their posters and
periodicals to broadcast their “relations of mutual solidarity” with the
other “revolutionary vanguard” that made up the “world forces of
liberation.”57 Their cultural productions served as a persistent reminder
that their own liberation was in a common cause with others, and that
the rifle could cement and reassert commitments to the broader
revolutionary network. Countless posters highlight that the rifle was a
tool to “create victory” and a “path to liberation” for both the
55 Amin Areesha, The Weapon is Our Way to Triumph, 1985, Poster, 19  27 in., PPPA,
accessed online on July 7, 2020, http://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/the-weapon-
is-our-way-to-triumph; Ghazi Inaim, Through Posters and Pictures – 1, 1984, Poster, 16.75 
24.5 in., PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, http://www.palestineposterproject.org/
poster/through-pictures-and-posters-1. Inaim, Through Posters and Pictures – 2, 1984, Poster,
18.75  24.75 in., PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, http://www.palestineposterproject.
org/poster/through-pictures-and-posters-2.
56 Chamberlin, 14.
57 PFLP, Democratic Palestine no. 3 (May 1984), 2. PLO, PLO Bulletin 4, no. 19
(November 1978), 2.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
295
--- 페이지 21 ---
Palestinians and the world’s revolutionary peoples.58 A 1982 PFLP
boldly announced that “our guns will clear the road to peace” while a
FIGURE 3. “Through Posters and Pictures 2,” (1984) Fatah poster by Ghazi
Inaim; retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project Archives. http://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/through-pictures-and-posters-2.
Liberation
Graphics Collection of Palestine Posters.
58 Muaid al Rawi, Tel Azaatar [sic] Will Remain the Symbol, c. 1976, Poster, PPPA,
accessed online on July 14, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/tel-azaatar-
will-remain-the-symbol. Helmi Eltouni, Revolutionary Rifle, 1979, Poster, PPPA, accessed
296
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 22 ---
banner representing the Palestinian flag weaves in and out of the rifle’s
barrel and front sight in the shape of a dove. The poster’s use of
language and iconography familiar to the revolutionary community
portrayed the interrelatedness of Palestinian peace and worldwide
resistance.59
Palestinians saw themselves as successors to the anti-colonial
struggle playing out in Vietnam: “We have learned from Cuba and
Vietnam that there are no insurmountable obstacles.”60 One poster
from the early 1970s depicted a National Liberation Front guerilla
literally passing a flag labeled “Victory” to a Palestinian fighter, who
raised a Kalashnikov in his right hand as he accepted the flag with his
left.61 A second poster, produced by the Arab Liberation Front,
reinforced their intertwined fates of the world’s peoples with the
Kalashnikov, declaring that the “popular struggle is winning every-
where. Vietnam is winning . . . Palestine will win.” The revolutions of
the world play a prominent role in the poster: small red silhouettes run
across the Kalashnikov, which serves as the literal bridge between
revolutions. While the militants run towards a map of Palestine
(presumably from Vietnam), they pass by a map of North Africa, East
Africa, and the Middle East (see Figure 4). The Kalashnikov, as a
transnational phenomenon, wordlessly acted as the binding agent
between these disparate regions and reified the community to its
members.62
Solidarity outside of Vietnam began within the Arab world itself. A
1985 poster from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine –
General Command (PFLP-GC), a Syrian-based breakoff of the original
PFLP, depicted the banana-shaped magazine loaded into a Kalashnikov,
online on July 7, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/revolutionary-rifle.
Inaim, The Rifle is the Path to Liberation, 1985, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 1, 2020,
http://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/the-rifle-is-our-path-to-liberation. Fatah, The
Weapon is Our Way to Triumph, 1985, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 2, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/the-weapon-is-our-way-to-triumph.
59 Kamal Nicola, Only Our Guns Will Clear the Road to Peace and Liberation, 1982,
Poster, 26.5  18.5 in., PPPA, accessed online on July 14, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/only-our-guns. See also Shammout, Sixteenth Anniversary
of the Launching, 1981, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 9, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/sixteenth-anniversary-of-the-launching-shammout
and
Palestinian Popular Struggle Front (hereafter cited as PPSF), Fighting for Palestine, 1979,
Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 13, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/
poster/fighting-for-palestine.
60 PFLP, PFLP Bulletin no. 19–20 (September/December 1975), 14.
61 Shammout, Al Nasr, c. 1972, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/al-nasr.
62 al Jassem, Lotta di Popolo Vince.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
297
--- 페이지 23 ---
with its bullets bearing the emblems of different factions of the
Palestine Liberation Organization. The Palestinians visually situated
them at the center of the Global South: the various factions of the PLO
served as the ammunition for the revolutionary rifle (the symbol of
Third World unity) and stood ready to fire.63
Many in the Palestinian liberation movement were especially
emphatic about expressing solidarity with Lebanon.64 Throughout the
Lebanese Civil War, the PLO professed its undying support and extoled
FIGURE 4. “Lotta di Popolo Vince,” (c. 1970) Arab Liberation Front poster by
Hassib al Jassem; retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project Archives, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/lotta-di-popolo-vince. Liberation Gra-
phics Collection of Palestine Posters.
63 Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (hereafter cited as
PFLP-GC), Full Solidarity to the Palestinian Patriotic Rescue Front, 1985, Poster, 26.75  19 in.,
PPPA, accessed online on December 2, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/
full-solidarity-to-the-palestinian-patriotic-rescue-front.
64 By the 1970s, the PLO had significant territorial control in south Lebanon after a
surge of activity. Palestinian resistance inside of Lebanon and the PLO’s alliance with the
leftist Lebanese National Movement combined to provoke a civil war in Lebanon. For more
information on the PLO in Lebanon, see Helena Lindholm Schulz and Juliane Hammer,
eds., The Palestinian Diaspora: Formation of Identities and Politics of Homeland (Hoboken, NJ:
Taylor and Francis, 2003), 54–56.
298
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 24 ---
the “legendary steadfastness of the joint Palestinian-Lebanese forces in
south Lebanon and in all positions of the Revolution.”65 Solidarity
posters published in the mid-1970s presented the Lebanese and
Palestinians as a “one people,” sometimes connected directly through
the Kalashnikov. The slogan “one people” became a crucial part of
Palestinian-Lebanese social and cultural exchange as the PLO became
more involved in the Lebanese National Movement’s struggle against
Syria and opposition factions in Lebanon.66
A 1983 poster literally melds the transnational rifle with nationalist
causes of the Palestinians and Lebanese. Paying direct homage to a
poster published by the Lebanese National Movement two years prior,
the Fatah poster featured the national flags of Palestine and Lebanon
meeting together at beneath a large drop of blood. Each banner
wrapped around the droplet, weaved past the other, and morphed into
the barrels of a Kalashnikov (see Figure 5). Both the Lebanese and
Palestinians, in a direct call-and-response exchange of posters, utilized
the same imagery and format, seamlessly blending the Kalashnikov into
their intertwined revolutions.67 A 1984 Fatah poster brought the
Syrian cause into this alliance by portraying a three-leaf clover
emerging from the barrel of a Kalashnikov, with each leaf taking the
colors of the Palestinian, Syrian, or Lebanese flag. Three revolutions,
shown as a single plant, sprout from a single source: the global anti-
imperial revolution represented by the rifle.68
Solidarity also extended to the revolutions past the Arab world and
to the broader Global South. A poster jointly released by Iranian and
Palestinian Marxist-Leninist factions depicted two Kalashnikovs side
by side joined together by a ball of energy in this “common struggle”
65 PLO, PLO Bulletin 6, no. 22 (December 1980), 10.
66 Shammout, One Cause – One Enemy; Shammout, Twenty-Third of Nisan, c. 1975,
Poster, 19.5  27.25 in., PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/one-cause-one-enemy; Shammout, One People – One
Path, c. 1982, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://www.palestineposter
project.org/poster/one-people-one-path; Schulz and Hammer, 55–56.
67 Yusuf Hammou, Together, 1983, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, http://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/together-0. For the earlier Lebanese version of this
poster: Hammou, Viva la Union, 1981, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/viva-la-union.
68 Mahmood Basheer, Long Live the Palestinian-Syrian-Lebanese National Alliance, 1984,
Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 7, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/
poster/long-live-the-palestinian-syrian-lebanese-national-alliance. In the words of the
PFLP, published the same year, the Palestinians hoped that this “Nationalist Triangle:
Lebanese-Palestinian-Syrian” would ground the “basis” of victory in Lebanon. See PFLP,
Democratic Palestine no. 3 (May 1984), 3.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
299
--- 페이지 25 ---
against imperialism (see Figure 6).69 Here, the Kalashnikov stands in
directly for two revolutionary peoples and helped those separated by
national borders to visualize themselves in a single community. Because
it was released by both groups, it necessarily required and demonstrated
a mutual understanding on the Kalashnikov’s revolutionary symbolism.
A separate poster linked the Palestinian cause with the Cubans by
declaring “we are all [Guevara],” with the image of a raised Kalashnikov
beneath an image memorializing of Muhammad al-Asward, who was
known as “Gaza’s Guevara.” It was not uncommon for men in the
FIGURE 5. “Together,” (1983) Fatah poster by Yusuf Hammou; retrieved from
the Palestine Poster Project Archives, http://www.palestineposterproject.org/
poster/together-0. Liberation Graphics Collection of Palestine Posters.
69 PFLP, Palestinian Weapons and the Weapons of the Iranian Revolutionaries, 1976, Poster,
PPPA, accessed online on October 1, 2021, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/
palestinian-weapons-and-the-weapons-of-the-iranian-revolutionaries.
300
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 26 ---
Palestinian nationalist movement to adopt noms de guerre after famous
revolutionaries, with al-Asward’s name reinforcing the camaraderie of
Cubans and Palestinians.70 A separate solidarity poster extoled the
Palestinian relationship with Nicaragua through a “symbol of the
common struggle”: the iconic wide-brimmed hat worn by Nicaraguan
revolutionary Augusto Nicolas Calderon Sandino in the pattern of a
traditional black and white kaffiyeh, melding two national elements
together. The hat lay on top of a Kalashnikov, a message of the
inseparability of their fight and the indispensability of the rifle to their
shared revolution.71
Artists also envisioned the rifle as consequential for the liberation of
women everywhere, and the struggle of women was in turn “a corner
stone on the road to liberation.”72 When celebrating March 8th,
International Women’s Day, artists often did so through imagery of
women wielding the Kalashnikov as a means of the “complete
liberation of [the world’s] women.”73 Once again, Palestinian
nationalists were tying themselves to a broader, transnational cause
in order to emphasize the global scope of their own cause. In a 1980
PFLP poster celebrating International Women’s Day, an armed mother
cradles a small child as her rifle stands rigidly on her shoulder, reflecting
the same stoic posture as she does. Though only the end of the rifle is
visible, it is carefully and realistically detailed in a manner much
different than the poster’s simple faces. The artist took special care to
include the rifle’s signature front sight and gas block when a plain, non-
70 PFLP, We are All “Guevara,” c. 1975, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 2, 2020,
https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/we-are-all-guevara; Jean-Pierre Filiu, “The
Origins of Hamas: Military Legacy or Israeli Tool?,” Journal of Palestine Studies 41 no. 3
(2012): 54–70, 63; Julie Peteet, “Naming in the Palestine-Israel Conflict,” Third World
Quarterly 26, no. 1 (2005): 153–172, 161.
71 Rudin, Palestina y Nicaragua, 1980, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on July 1, 2020,
https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/palestina-y-nicaragua.
72 Adnan al Sharif, Cornerstone, 1976, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 10,
2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/cornerstone.
73 Arab Liberation Front, ALF – International Women’s Day, c. 1985, Poster, PPPA,
accessed online on August 10, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/arab-
liberation-front-international-womens-day. For additional International Women’s Day
posters, see Rudin, Consolidating the Struggle, c. 1985, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on
August 10, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/consolidating-the-struggle,
and PFLC-GC, The First Step on the Path, 1986, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 10,
2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/the-first-step-on-the-path. For an addi-
tional poster featuring armed women, see Shammout, On The Path of Dalal Mughrabi Until
Victory, 1980, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 10, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/on-the-path-of-dalal-mughrabi-until-victory.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
301
--- 페이지 27 ---
descript barrel might have sufficed (see Figure 7).74 The inclusion was
as meaningful a choice to the artist as her dove earrings, the shape of
Palestine on her chest, the bountiful landscape behind her, or the caged
and chained women she carried on her body.
Even Marxist-Leninist and socialist groups found ways to utilize the
Kalashnikov in keeping with their worldview calling for a global
socialist revolution.75 From their earliest posters in the late 1960s, they
FIGURE 6. “Palestinian Weapons and the Weapons of the Iranian Revolu-
tionaries,” (1976) PFLP poster; retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project
Archives. https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/palestinian-weapons-
and-the-weapons-of-the-iranian-revolutionaries. Liberation Graphics Collec-
tion of Palestine Posters.
74 Rudin, Yom al Mara’a al Alami, 1980, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 10,
2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/yom-al-maraa-al-alami; al Sharif, Cor-
nerstone; GUPS, Il Y A Un An, c. 1975, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 10, 2020,
https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/il-y-a-un-an.
75 The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine was established in 1967 with the
purpose of “inject[ing] a clear class perspective in the Palestinian national liberation
struggle.” Not long after its founding, the PFLP fractured into a number of smaller Marxist-
Leninist organizations, including the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command, the Palestinian Popular
Struggle Front, a reduced PFLP, and the Arab Liberation Front, which took as its emblem a
Kalashnikov paired with a hammer. See PFLP, Democratic Palestine no. 3 (May 1984), 2,
Schulz and Hammer, 237, and Gus Martin, ed., The SAGE Encyclopedia of Terrorism, Second
edition (Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, 2011), 156–157, 485–487.
302
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 28 ---
framed the Kalashnikov as a tool of worldwide proletariat solidarity.76
Posters celebrated International Workers Day on May 1st, often by
placing the Kalashnikov into the hands of workers as a tool of the
working class as a means to carry out the fight “against the national &
class enemy.”77
The rifle became as much a symbol of the global working class
struggle as the hammer and sickle, and May 1st posters often portrayed
members of the proletariat side by side, armed with rifles, hoes, and
wrenches in a show of unity to guaranteed “the continuation of the
revolution.”78 A May Day poster from the Palestinian Popular Struggle
FIGURE 7. “Yom al Mara’a al Alami,” (1980) PFLP poster by Marc Rudin;
retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project Archives, https://www.palestine
posterproject.org/poster/yom-al-maraa-al-alami. Liberation Graphics Collec-
tion of Palestine Posters.
76 Democratic Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (hereafter cited as DPFLP),
Four Threats, c. 1967, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 11, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/four-threats. In a second poster, four arms rise above a
barbed-wire-encased refugee camp, with the hands holding a sickle, rifle, hammer, and book.
The Kalashnikov, situated between the sickle and hammer but rising above all except the
Palestinian flag, worked to symbolically bridge the gap between the farmers and industrial
workers of the world. DPFLP, Harvest-Fight-Build-Read, c. 1967, Poster, PPPA, accessed
online on August 11, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/harvest-fight-
build-read.
77 Wahhab, Class Enemy, c. 1977, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 11, 2020,
https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/class-enemy.
78 Rudin, Unity of the Working Class, c. 1987, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August
11, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/unity-of-the-working-class.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
303
--- 페이지 29 ---
Front hailed “world labor solidarity with Palestinian Laborers” by
portraying a worker raising his Kalashnikov over his head with his right
hand while holding a wrench in his left.79 As a tool of the working class
revolution, proletariat solidarity posters often depicted the rifle literally
merging and becoming one with the worker’s tool or being raised side
by side with it (see Figure 8).80 In two posters produced by the
combination of the PFLP and DFLP for May Day, a kaffiyeh-clad
“vanguard of the revolution” raised up his tool while the shadow cast on
the red banner behind it took the form of the Kalashnikov.81
Several PFLP Bulletins also emphasized the importance of the
Kalashnikov to proletariat solidarity and the worker’s revolution. The
1981 issues in March and May/June once more reinforce the
interdependency of the workers movement and the Palestinian
liberation movement, with the former portraying a fighter clutching
a Kalashnikov to his chest just above a wrench sitting in his breast
pocket, while the latter, celebrating international workers day,
presented a worker swinging his hammer while his shadow reflects a
fighter raising his rifle above his head.82 The cover of the February 1981
issue, an issue devoted to “Palestinian-Lebanese Unity in Struggle,”
portrayed a kaffiyeh-clad fighter standing back-to-back with a Lebanese
woman, each armed with a Kalashnikov while a hammer and sickle
appear in front of each of them, respectively. One commonality bound
the Palestinians and Lebanese, the industrial worker and the farmer,
the man and woman: the Kalashnikov (see Figure 9).83
79 PPSF, Solidarity with Palestinian Laborers, c. 1980, Posters, PPPA, accessed online on
August 11, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/solidarity-with-palestinian-
laborers.
80 PPSF, The Palestinian Working Class, c. 1975, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August
11,
2020,
https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/the-palestinian-working-class;
Menhem, 1 May 1977, 1977, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 11, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/1-may-1977; Palestinian Trade Union, Palestinian
Trade Union Movement, 1975, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 11, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/palestinian-trade-union-movement; Rudin, Palesti-
nian Workers are the Shield of the Revolution, 1980, Poster, 18.75  27 in., PPPA, accessed
online on July 9, 2020, http://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/workers-are-the-shield-
of-the-revolution; Palestine Martyrs Works Society, Arms of the Workers Protect the
Revolution, 1986, Poster, 67  47 cm, PPPA, accessed online on August 11, 2020, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/arms-of-the-workers-protect-the-revolution.
81 Rudin, Vanguards of the Revolution, c. 1982, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August
11, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/vanguards-of-revolution; Rudin,
May 1st, c. 1982, Poster, PPPA, accessed online on August 11, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/may-1st-study-by-rudin.
82 PFLP, PFLP Bulletin no. 48 (March 1981), cover; PFLP, PFLP Bulletin no. 50–51
(May–June 1981), cover.
83 PFLP, PFLP Bulletin no. 47 (February 1981), cover.
304
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 30 ---
FIGURE 8. “Palestinian Trade Union Movement,” (1975) Palestinian Trade
Union poster; retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project Archives, https://
www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/palestinian-trade-union-movement.
Liberation Graphics Collection of Palestine Posters.
FIGURE 9. PFLP Bulletin 47, (1981), cover, retrieved from the Palestine Poster
Project Archives, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/pflp-bulletin-
number-47. Liberation Graphics Collection of Palestine Posters.
--- 페이지 31 ---
CUBA
Much like the Palestine Liberation Organization, the Cuban-based
Organization of Solidarity with the Peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin
America envisioned its struggle as bound up with the wider Global
South and often saw Cuba as the nexus of this web. Acting
independently and often against the wishes of its nominal patron, the
Soviet Union, Cuba reached out across the Global South, from Algeria
and sub-Saharan Africa to its neighbors in Latin America.84 When
Cuban arms, expertise, and art spread across the Global South, it did so
not as a passive follower of the Soviet camp in the Cold War but as a
country that saw the primary conflict between the world’s peoples as a
fracture “between privileged and underprivileged” countries.85 The
repetitious use of the Kalashnikov’s image in Cuba art, targeted at
audiences from Southeast Asia to the Middle East to Latin America,
was not about broadening the wings of the Soviet Empire but about
forging a collective identity that eschewed Soviet influence altogether.
The use of the ostensibly Soviet icon to thicken the bonds across the
Global South reinforced the distance between the initial normative
function of the Kalashnikov as a tool of Soviet standardization and the
way it was fashioned by those in the Third World as a part of their
shared culture.
A poster printed by the OSPAAAL calling for a “day of solidarity
with the Cuban Revolution” perfectly encapsulated the ways in which
Cuba saw itself as crucial to the Third World rather than a satellite of
the Soviets in a bipolar one. The artist juxtaposed two unlike images,
depicting a gold-colored Kalashnikov driving upward into a flower
whose pedals represented the red, white, and blue of the Cuban flag,
complete with a white five-pointed star. In place of the talon-shaped
magazine is the word “CUBA.” The island nation depicted itself as
literally providing ammunition to the Kalashnikov (and therefore
Global South).86 A Cuba-centric poster celebrating the “Day of the
Heroic Guerilla” (Che Guevara) included drawings of fighters in
uniforms from across the revolutionary world. An unmanned
Kalashnikov spanning the bottom of the poster is second in size only
84 Gleisjeses, 30–32.
85 Ibid., 373–377.
86 Enrique Martinez, Day of Solidarity with the Cuban Revolution, 1969, Offset, 56 
35 cm, OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/
CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-168.html.
306
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 32 ---
to Guevara’s face, once more placing Cuba the center of the Global
South.87
Among the most prominent artistic forms in OSPAAAL propaganda
was pairing the transnational Kalashnikov with a symbol of national or
cultural significance. In 1974 and 1975, during OSPAAAL’s “Day of
World Solidarity” with the “People of Palestine,” three separate posters
included a Kalashnikov-wielding fighter donning a kaffiyeh, a traditional
Arabian headdress.88 An additional poster declaring “World Solidarity”
alsoappearedinthemid-1970swithablack-and-whiteimageofamanon
a field of orange holding his Kalashnikov flashing the peace sign with his
free hand. Below him, roots grew out of his feet, symbolizing the
Palestinian liberation movement’s emphasis on roots and land (see
Figure 10).89 In 1979, OSPAAAL printed a poster advertising a “Word
Conference of Solidarity with the Arab People” to answer “the Palestine
question,” in which the kaffiyeh-clad figure in the foreground of the
drawing wielded an AK-47.90 In each of these posters, elements
indigenous to Palestinian national culture—the kaffiyeh and roots tying
the fighter to the land—are globalized with the rifle that bound the
revolutionary community together.
The distinctive manner in which OSPAAAL expressed revolu-
tionary solidarity—by pairing (or even arming) recognizable indigen-
ous styles or figures with the Kalashnikov—extended past Palestine and
into Southeast Asia, the Vietnamese were engaged in a war of
resistance against Cuba’s chief rival, the United States. In 1969,
OSPAAAL superimposed a bamboo or wooden Montagnard crossbow
over top of an AK-47.91 In 1974, when pushing for Cambodian
independence, OSPAAAL’s poster featured an identifiable piece from
87 Olivio Martinez, Day of the Heroic Guerilla, 1971, Offset, 54  33 cm, OSPAAAL
archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.
np/detail-160.html.
88 Andres Hernandez, Day of World Solidarity with the Struggle of the People of Palestine,
1974, Poster, 20  27 in., PPPA, accessed online on July 9, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/world-solidarity; Ramon Gonzalez, Pueblo de Palestina,
1975, Poster, 69  45.5 in., PPPA, accessed online on July 9, 2020, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/pueblo-de-palestina; Olivio Martinez, Palestinae, 1975,
OSPAAAL, Offset, 68  48 cm, OSPAAAL archives, accessed online on July 30, 2020,
https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-292.html.
89 Victor Manuel Navarette, Solidaridad Mundial, c. 1975, Poster, 20  30 in., PPPA,
accessed online on July 9, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/solidaridad-
mundial.
90 Rolando Cordoba, World Conference of Solidarity with the Arab People, 1979, Poster,
PPPA, accessed online on July 15, 2020, https://www.palestineposterproject.org/poster/
conference-of-solidarity.
91 Jesus Forjans, International Week of Solidarity with Viet Nam, 1969, Poster, 53  33 cm,
Organization of Solidarity of the People of Asia, Africa, and Latin America Archives,
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
307
--- 페이지 33 ---
the Banteay Srei, a 10th century Cambodian temple. In the foreground
knelt a statue of Hanuman, a Hindu god who takes the form of a divine
monkey, resting an AK-47 on top of his knee. The grinning god used
the transnational Kalashnikov to protect the temple behind him (see
Figure 11).92 Here, as in other OSPAAAL posters, it is not Soviet or
Chinese prowess watching over the temple in the Cuban-mind but the
revolutionary resistance of the Global South.
Two solidarity posters with the revolutionary peoples of Zimbabwe
similarly knotted together representations of culture with the
Kalashnikov. In 1984, the “Day of Solidarity with Zimbabwe” poster
featured a drawing of a young boy donning a traditional African feather
FIGURE 10. “Solidaridad Mundial,” (1975), OSPAAAL poster by Victor anuel
Navarette; retrieved from the Palestine Poster Project Archives, https://www.
palestineposterproject.org/poster/solidaridad-mundial. Liberation Graphics
Collection of Palestine Posters.
accessed online on July 13, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-
128.html.
92 Olivio Martinez, Cambodia for Independence, 1974, Poster, 76  49 cm, OSPAAAL
Archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.
np/detail-96.html; Philip Lutgendorf, Hanuman’s Tale: The Messages of a Divine Monkey
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007).
308
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 34 ---
FIGURE 11. “Cambodia for Independence,” (1974) OSPAAAL poster by
Olivio Martinez. Reproduced with permission from Lincoln Cushing/Docs
Populi, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-96.html.
--- 페이지 35 ---
headdress staring intently at the reader with a rifle slung over his
shoulder.93 A second poster depicted a blue African statue appearing to
stand
on
guard
while
holding
a
bayonetted-Kalashnikov
(see
Figure 12).94 In its solidarity with Guatemala, OSPAAAL printed a
similar poster of a stylized Mayan stone carving holding a Kalashnikov
(see Figure 13).95 Two posters supporting the Polisario Front, a
national liberation front founded in 1973 in Morocco, portrayed two
rebel fighters wielding AK-47s while donning a traditional Moroccan
shesh.96
OSPAAAL attained this same message of merging the transna-
tional and national by juxtaposing national flags with the Kalashnikov.
A poster extoling “a people in struggle”—the Chileans—placed an
image of a rifle-wielding President Salvador Allende over top of the
Chilean flag. The iconography included an additional layer: in the
image chosen, Allende stares down the sights of the AK-47 that was
presented to him by Fidel Castrol as a symbol of their revolutionary
connection.97 A second print depicted a blacked out drawing of
Allende holding a Kalashnikov to his chest while the full-color
Chilean flag waved in the background.98 An OSPAAAL poster of
solidarity with Lebanon similarly expressed transcontinental solidarity
through the flag. Inside the green cedar tree found on the flag of
Lebanon, a stern fighter clutches his rifle. Two posters in the late 1960s
reaffirmed this stylistic choice with North Korea. In each poster, a
North Korean soldier wields a Kalashnikov (with one poster showing
93 Arturo Alfonso Palomino, Day of Solidarity with Zimbabwe, 1977, Poster, 69  38 cm,
OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/
CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-86.html.
94 Forjans, Day of Solidarity with Zimbabwe, 1969, Poster, 53  33 cm, OSPAAAL
archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.
np/detail-85.html.
95 Olivio Martinez, Day of Solidarity with Guatemala, 1969, Offset, 54  33 cm,
OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/
CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-226.html.
96 Rafael Morante, The Polisario Front, 1981, Offset, 51  76 cm, OSPAAAL archive,
accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-
47.html; Rafael Enriquez, FPolisario, 1979, Silkscreen, 72  50 cm, OSPAAAL Archive,
accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-
49.html.
97 Enriquez, Chile: A People in Struggle, 1983, Poster, 67  48 cm, OSPAAAL archive,
accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-
218.html; “Former President Allende’s Family Petitioning Return of the AK47, A Gift From
Fidel Castro,” Merco Press (Montevideo, Uruguay), May 24, 2011, accessed online on July
16, 2020, https://en.mercopress.com/2011/05/24/former-president-allende-s-family-petition
ing-return-of-the-ak47-a-gift-from-fidel-castro.
98 Cushing, 76.
310
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 36 ---
the soldier swinging the rifle by the barrel as if it were an axe) against a
background of the North Korean flag.99
OSPAAAL also published posters of solidarity that did not make
overt use of national or indigenous iconography. Posters on days of
solidarity with Venezuela, Zimbabwe, Angola, and “the peoples of
FIGURE 12. “Day of Solidarity with Guatemala,” (1969) OSPAAAL poster by
Olivio Martinez. Reproduced with permission from Lincoln Cushing/Docs
Populi, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-226.html.
99 Gladys Acosta, Month of Solidarity with Korea, 1968, Offset, 53  33 cm, OSPAAAL
archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.
np/detail-109.html; International Campaign of Solidarity with the People of Korea, 1969, Offset,
53  33 cm, OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.
org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-113.html.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
311
--- 페이지 37 ---
Africa” depict various figures wielding Kalashnikovs, while a poster for
Mozambique simply shows the body of a purple AK-47 with the word
“MOZAMBIQUE” written across it. Only the iconic (and purple,
orange, and yellow-colored) banana-shaped magazine protruding from
the weapon signals that it is a Kalashnikov.100 The nation and the rifle
FIGURE 13. “Day of Solidarity with Zimbabwe,” (1969) OSPAAAL poster by
Jesus Forjans. Reproduced with permission from Lincoln Cushing/Docs Populi,
https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-85.html.
100 Lazaro Abreu, Zimbabwe: Toward Victory, 1978, 76  52 cm, Offset, OSPAAAL
archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.
np/detail-83.html; Morante, Solidarity with the Peoples of Africa, 1983, Offset, 61  43 cm,
OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.ospaaal.com/detail/72lg.
html; Cushing, 75; Enrique Martinez, Day of Solidarity with the Peoples of Mozambique, 1969,
Offset, 53  33 cm, OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.
312
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 38 ---
are
blended
together,
demonstrating
that
the
causes
of
the
revolutionaries in Mozambique and the revolutionaries across the
world were inextricably tied together.
It is perhaps fitting that the Tricontinental, the monthly magazine
and official publication of OSPAAAL, also made use of the
Kalashnikov iconography for some of its covers. The name itself,
taken from the Tricontinental Conference first held in January 1966,
was naturally an assertion of transnational solidarity. Tricontinental
issues 57 and 85 devoted their covers to the Palestinian question, with
the first depicting a kaffiyeh-clad fighter leaning his head against a
standing Kalashnikov, and the second portraying PLO chairman Yasser
Arafat smiling in front of a Palestinian flag while a group of men, one of
whom is waving his Kalashnikov, are positioned below their leader.101
For the fifth anniversary of the Tricontinental Conference, OSPAAAL
produced a poster illustrating a row of black silhouettes, each wielding a
Kalashnikov, while a rainbow stripe runs across their backs, binding
them together. The advertisement was a clear celebration of the origin
and persistence of transnational solidarity and the Kalashnikov’s
solidarity in uniting these peoples.102
CONCLUSION
The AK-47 was instrumental in helping to construct a collective
revolutionary identity among the world’s national liberation groups
during the Cold War. Cultural productions in China, the Palestine
Liberation Organization, Cuba and elsewhere made repetitious use of
the AK-47 across different continents, demonstrating how the rifle
became a crucial, meaningful part of identifying with shared revolution
in the Global South. Despite the fact that their widely distributed
docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-51.html; Morante, Solidarity: Angola, 1973,
Offset, 53  33 cm, OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.
docspopuli.org/CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-16.html.
101 OSPAAAL, Tricontinental no. 57 (1970), cover; OSPAAAL, Tricontinental no. 85
(1983), cover. For additional covers devoted to Africa and the Young Lords Party,
respectively, see Lucy Fleming, “How Cuban Art Fed Africa’s Liberation Struggles,” British
Broadcasting Company (London, UK), accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.bbc.
com/news/world-africa-50304024 and John A. Gronbeck-Tedesco, Cuba, the United States,
and the Cultures of the Transnational Left, 1930–1975 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press, 2015), 266.
102 Alfredo Rostgaard, Tricontinental Conference Anniversary, 1971, Offset, 54  33 cm,
OSPAAAL archive, accessed online on July 16, 2020, https://www.docspopuli.org/
CubaWebCat/detail.np/detail-301.html.
“The Rifle is the Symbol”
313
--- 페이지 39 ---
mediums used different styles, content, and symbolism, the members of
this cosmopolitan revolutionary world imagined themselves as part of a
larger community completed with its own shared material and visual
culture with the Kalashnikov at its heart. The rifle’s metaphor helped
to mediate these transnational social relations.
As an object imbued with significant political meaning divorced of
its Soviet origins, the Kalashnikov was the physical embodiment of the
Third World struggle and a bridge between otherwise distinct
revolutionary movements. Instead of carrying Soviet fingerprints
across the globe, the rifle instead became a well-established symbol that
conveyed Third World cosmopolitanism and solidarity. What the
Soviets hoped would be the ultimate symbol of the appeal of their
ideological camp instead served as a method of breaking the East-West
dichotomy of the Cold War rather than becoming subsumed by it.
China and Cuba, erstwhile and nominal allies of the Soviets,
respectively, instead saw the use of the rifle in visual culture as a method
of situating themselves at the heart of world revolution and displacing
the Soviet Union.
To this day, the AK-47 continues to be an enduring symbol. Near-
ubiquitous representations in Western news media, movies, and music
have imbued the Kalashnikov as an international icon representing
terror, anarchy, and anti-establishment sentiments in the popular
mind. Yet away from the battlefield, it was an object that was capable of
holding manifold meanings that could often be contradictory. The
weapon could be stripped of its offensive capabilities entirely. In
revolutionary art aimed at a Third World constituency, the rifle was
unburdened by these Western expectations and could stand in, among
other things, as a bridge between peoples and a tool of constituting an
imagined community. The AK-47’s meaning has changed and will
continue to change over time as long as it exists, demonstrating the
rifle’s remarkable capacity as an ideological vessel contingent on time,
place, and context in the eyes of its beholder.
Brandon Kinney is a PhD candidate at Temple University studying American
foreign relations. Brandon was the 2019–2020 recipient of the Thomas
Davis Fellowship in Diplomacy and Foreign Relations at the Center for the
Study of Force and Diplomacy at Temple University and a 2020 History
Education Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. He would like to acknowledge and thank Petra Goedde,
Lincoln Cushing, Marien van der Heijden, and the editors and reviewers of
Journal of World History for their thoughtful comments and contributions
to this research. http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0999-9570
314
JOURNAL OF WORLD HISTORY, JUNE 2023
--- 페이지 40 ---
Copyright of Journal of World History is the property of University of Hawai'i and its content
may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright
holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for
individual use.