제목: The AK-47: the world's favourite killing machine
저자: Oliver Sprague

목차:
- The AK-47:  the world's   favourite killing machine   (페이지: 1)
- 26 June 2006  (페이지: 1)
- Introduction   (페이지: 1)
- A short history of the Kalashnikov  (페이지: 2)
  - Proliferation of Kalashnikov production capacity  (페이지: 3)
  - Kalashnikov versus other assault rifles  (페이지: 3)
  - The new Kalashnikov dealers  (페이지: 4)
  - The human cost  (페이지: 5)
  - The future of the Kalashnikov  (페이지: 7)
  - Conclusions and recommendations  (페이지: 8)
  -  Appendix 1: Global principles for arms transfers   (페이지: 11)
    - Compilation of global principles for arms transfers  (페이지: 11)
    - Principle 1: Responsibilities of states   (페이지: 11)
    - Principle 2: Express limitations  (페이지: 11)
    - Principle 3: Limitations based on use or likely use   (페이지: 12)
    - Principle 4: Factors to be taken into account   (페이지: 12)
    - Principle 5: Transparency  (페이지: 12)
    - Principle 6: Comprehensive controls  (페이지: 12)
  -  Notes  (페이지: 14)

--- 페이지 1 ---
Control Arms Briefing Note
EMBARGOED UNTIL 04:00 HRS GMT MONDAY 26 JUNE 2006
The AK-47:  the world's   
favourite killing machine
26 June 2006
Introduction
Kalashnikov1 assault rifles are the most widespread military weapons in the world. It 
is estimated that there are between 50 and 70 million of them spread across the world’s 
five continents. They are used daily by soldiers, fighters, and gang members to inflict 
untold suffering in many countries. The spread of these weapons continues largely 
unchecked by governments, threatening the lives and safety of millions as weapons fall 
into irresponsible hands. More than ever, the Kalashnikov rifle is the weapon of choice 
for many armies, militias, armed gangs, law enforcement officials, rebels, and other 
private actors who abuse fundamental human rights and operate beyond the 
international humanitarian law parameters laid down by the Geneva Conventions and 
other relevant international law.
Although the United Nations and its member states have taken concrete action to limit 
the proliferation of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons of mass destruction 
through international treaties and monitoring organisations, the number one tool used 
for killing and injuring civilians today is small arms, including the assault rifle, which 
is reaching more countries than ever before. On 26 June 2006, the UN Review 
Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons begins in New York. 
At this conference, governments have an opportunity to agree effective and 
comprehensive controls to prevent the proliferation and misuse of small arms and light 
weapons, including assault rifles like the AK-47. In October 2006, at the UN General 
Assembly, governments should agree to negotiate a new global Arms Trade Treaty 
(ATT) to regulate international transfers of all conventional arms, including military 
assault rifles.
The proliferation of Kalashnikovs has resulted in such deadly weapons being used to 
massacre, maim, rape and abuse, torture, and fuel violent crime in countries as diverse 
as Afghanistan, Britain, the Democratic Republic of  Congo (DRC), Iraq, Mexico, Sierra 
Leone, the USA, Venezuela, and Yemen. With no global treaty to regulate the sale of 
such weapons and no international organisation to effectively monitor transfers of 
small arms and light weapons, Kalashnikov assault rifles are a truly global commodity
--- 페이지 2 ---
now traded, warehoused, and produced in more countries than at any time in their 
sixty-year history.
The Kalashnikov assault rifle was designed during the Second World War and 
produced originally as the AK-47, for use against conventional armies by soldiers 
subject to military law. Since then the AK-47 has been diverted from its intended 
purpose and is now part of an often unregulated flow of assault weapons which has 
catastrophic consequences for civilian populations in the developing world.
‘People often ask me whether I feel guilty about human suffering that is caused 
by the attacks with AK-47. I tell them that I designed the gun to defend the 
Russian Motherland from its enemies. Of course I feel sad and frustrated when 
I see armed skirmishes with the use of my weapon also for conduct of 
predatory wars and for terrorist and criminal purposes. But it is not the 
designers who must ultimately take responsibility for where guns end up; it is 
governments who must control their production and export.’ 2
(General Kalashnikov, inventor of the AK-47 assault rifle)
In late 1998, rebel groups in Sierra Leone holding assault rifles repeatedly raped Fatu 
Kamara at gunpoint. Her husband was tortured and killed in front of her and her 
daughter shot in the head. The most widely used assault rifle in the atrocities carried 
out in Sierra Leone and Liberia was the AK-47.3
‘My mother wanted me to leave her behind but I couldn’t, and I was sitting 
with her when a rebel grabbed me. I turned round and saw many of them 
surrounding me, all holding guns. There was an argument. Some said I should 
be killed, but one soldier was a man I recognised, and he asked them not to kill 
me...When they had finished raping me they took me out and I was sitting 
crying, and then suddenly they brought my husband and my daughter. I was 
so troubled that I even forgot my own pain.’
(Fatu Kamara, 39, from Foredugu in Port Loko District, Sierra Leone)
A short history of the Kalashnikov
The first Kalashnikov assault rifle was invented by Mikhail Timofeyevich Kalashnikov 
whilst recovering from injuries sustained during fighting in the Second World War. Its 
first incarnation was the AK-47, named to coincide with the year of its entry into active 
service (1947) 4. Whilst production of the original AK-47 largely ceased in the mid 
1950s, modern variants continue to be produced in many parts of the world. It is 
estimated that there are somewhere between 50 and 70 million Kalashnikov assault 
rifles spread across the world’s five continents.
The Kalashnikov remains the preferred weapon for many armed forces, rebel groups 
and armed gangs because of its proven reliability and widespread availability. The AK-
47 in particular is robust and simple to operate, with only minimal working parts. AK-
47 weapons are produced in their tens of millions throughout the world, and were also 
supplied in their millions to various regimes during the Cold War, making them cheap 
and obtainable from numerous sources. Production and supply of ammunition (7.62 x 
39 mm) is equally prolific, including hundreds of millions of units stored in surplus 
stockpiles in many parts of the world.
The AK-47 is a semi-automatic military assault rifle and is designed to be operated by 
highly disciplined and well-trained infantry. However, in untrained and
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
2
--- 페이지 3 ---
unaccountable hands it is used dangerously and abusively – when this occurs in 
populated areas it can often result in civilian carnage. It can be fired in single shot 
mode or can be set for automatic fire by the simple operation of a lever located near the 
trigger mechanism. In automatic mode, the AK-47 can be fired at a rate of 600 rounds 
per minute as long as the trigger remains depressed, although its magazine can only 
store 30 rounds, which will empty in a little over 3 seconds.
The weapon has a maximum range of 800 to 1,000 metres, but is only really guaranteed 
to be accurate when used by a trained marksman up to a range of about 400 to 600 
metres 5. At excessive ranges (over 1,000 meters), an assault rifle can still cause 
tremendous injuries, due to the severe wounding and maiming effects of slow- moving 
unstable bullets on the human body. In Afghanistan for example, the severe ‘yawing’ 
effect of the Kalashnikov bullet when it enters the body can be seen clearly on the 
streets of Kandahar, Heart, and Kabul, where non-fatal wounds resulting from the 
turning of the round in human flesh have produced thousands of disabled people and 
amputees.6
In 1959, the AK-47 was upgraded by its original Russian manufacturers to the AKM 
model, which made it slightly lighter and cheaper to produce. In 1974 a new variant 
was introduced, the AK-74 which was basically a re-chambered AKM variant to take 
the newer 5.45 x 39 mm calibre ammunition, the Russian equivalent to the standard 
5.56 x 45 mm NATO standard round 7. The most modern family of Kalashnikov 
weapons is the AK-100 series. 8
Proliferation of Kalashnikov production capacity
There is widespread and persistent misuse of conventional arms, especially small arms 
and light weapons, across the globe, resulting largely from the failure of governments 
to control their proliferation and use. The underlying causes of this are (i) the absence 
of national, regional and ultimately global standards, laws, and procedures to regulate 
their transfer and use; (ii) the wide international spread of production capacity of many 
types of such weapons; and (iii) the easy availability of supplies from the surplus 
stocks of many types of small arms and light weapons, and their associated 
ammunition. AK rifles and ammunition typify this problem probably more than any 
other arms. This is partly a result of the collapse of the Warsaw pact in the late 1980s 
and early 1990s, and partly due to the spread of production of AK rifles and their 
variants in China and elsewhere, which made it relatively easy for unscrupulous arms 
dealers, irresponsible armed forces, and non-state groups to obtain such weapons.
Reports indicate that variants of the Kalashnikov rifle are produced in at least 14 
countries, including Albania, Bulgaria, China, Germany, Egypt, Hungary, India, Iraq, 
North Korea, Poland, Romania, Russia, and Serbia 9, and most recently Venezuela (see 
below). Kalashnikov technology has also been used for the development of other 
derivative assault rifle types manufactured in Finland, Israel, and South Africa, 
amongst others. For example, the Finish Sako M60, M62, and M76, the Israeli Galil 
ARM/AR assault rifles, and the South African R4 are all essentially based on the AK-
47’s main working parts.10
Kalashnikov versus other assault rifles
AK assault rifles are in the inventories of nearly half of the world’s armies, making 
them by far the world’s most prolific and used assault rifles. It is also the firearm of 
choice for virtually every armed group operating from every continent on the globe.
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
3
--- 페이지 4 ---
Images from criminal organisations or other armed groups nearly always depict them 
wielding Kalashnikov rifles.
At least 82 countries currently list AK or AK-derived assault rifles within their state 
arsenals. The next most popular assault rifles are the Heckler and Koch G3, originally 
from Germany, and FN Fal assault rifles, originally from Belgium. These are listed as in 
use in approximately 50 and 65 of the world’s armies respectively. This is followed by 
the US-produced M-16, currently listed as in service in up to 42 countries. 11 In terms of 
actual numbers of assault rifles produced, the AK outstrips the US-produced M-16 
assault rifle by a factor of ten to one. Global estimates put the production of AK rifles 
in the region of 50–70 million, although estimates of 100 million are not uncommon. By 
contrast, world production of G3 assault rifles, the next most prolific assault rifle, is 
believed to be between 15 and 20 million, and M-16 assault rifle production is 
estimated to be between 5 and 7 million.12
Demand in many parts of the world for Kalashnikov assault rifles remains strong, not 
least because the price remains relatively low. Unlike the price of other global 
commodities such as oil and gas, copper and zinc, the price of a Kalashnikov continues 
to fall in real terms, aiding its proliferation in poverty-stricken regions of the world. 
The price of an AK-47 derivative varies depending on sale location, quality, and 
quantity. A brand new Kalashnikov from a Russian factory costs around $240, 
depending on the derivative and size of the purchase.13 In Africa an AK-47 can be 
bought for around $30 in areas where supplies are plentiful.14 Thousands of Jordanian 
Kalashnikovs bought by the US for the new Iraqi security forces retailed at 
approximately $60 each.15 Stockpiled Balkan AK-47 variants cost US and European 
buyers between $50 and $100 per rifle.16
The new Kalashnikov dealers
Kalashnikov purchase and supply dynamics have altered dramatically since the Cold 
War. Tens of thousands of AKs are now being bought, trafficked, and brokered by a 
new breed of middlemen. International networks of companies, government agencies, 
and individuals in Europe, the Middle East, North America and elsewhere are 
involved, augmenting the millions of assault rifles and other small arms currently in 
circulation. These Kalashnikov market facilitators are increasingly involved in complex 
supply chains to deliver AK-47 assault rifles and their variants across the globe using 
brokering networks, freight-forwarders, transport firms, off-shore bank accounts, and 
other inter-connected companies. Established arms supply networks in many countries 
are responsible for delivering vast numbers of these weapons to areas of conflict and 
repression. These are now increasingly joined by some Western governments and 
associated private contractors who trade in surplus arms from former Warsaw Pact 
countries. This challenges the assumption that the worldwide problem of Kalashnikov 
proliferation and abuse has been caused solely by the failure of Russia and its military 
allies, and China and its partners, to control and regulate it.
For example, one significant buyer of Kalashnikov rifles and ammunition in the last 
two years is the US Department of Defence. The EU-led peace-keeping force (EUFOR) 
in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) and the Organization for Security and Co-operation 
in Europe (OSCE) state that more than 350,000 AK-47 rifles and derivatives were 
transferred out of BiH and Serbia and Montenegro by a chain of private contractors 
operating on behalf of the US Department of Defence between 2004 and 2005, 
purportedly destined for Iraq. Both the NATO force (SFOR), and subsequently EUFOR 
in BiH, authorised the transfer of such weapons and associated ammunition via
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
4
--- 페이지 5 ---
intermediaries to Iraq.17 An unknown number of such weapons and ammunition were 
also shipped to Afghanistan. Private contractors include a network of brokers and 
shipping agents operating in the USA, UK, Germany, Croatia, Serbia, Moldova, and 
Switzerland. This list excludes shipments made from Albania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, and Estonia which have either sold or donated AK-47 derivatives 
purportedly delivered to the new Iraqi and Afghan security forces.18
Some of these US Kalashnikov deliveries (allegedly to Iraq) were made using a 
Moldovan air charter company, Aerocom. This company had previously formed part 
of an arms trafficking network that delivered tens of thousands of AK-47 derivatives 
from Serbia to Liberia in 2002, in violation of the UN Arms embargo on Liberia, thus 
fuelling some of the worst arms atrocities and human suffering of the modern era. 
Aerocom was contracted by the Yugoslav state weapons company to transfer the 
Kalashnikovs in a deal involving false Nigerian End User Certificates. The cargo was 
diverted en route to Liberia, using fake flight plans to hide the true destination of the 
weapons. These assault rifles were used by forces loyal to Charles Taylor to commit 
terrible atrocities and acts of unimaginable cruelty, 19 with the result that civilians lived 
in constant fear of undisciplined armed groups who killed, raped, looted, and recruited 
up to an estimated 21,000 child soldiers.
‘I was working on the farm and heard that soldiers were coming, so my father 
told me to hide. But I was caught. The soldiers tied me and beat me and took 
me to a…. There were many small boys in Lofa, more than the adults. Many 
were killed by bullets and rockets. They gave me an arm and told me how to 
use it… I used an AK-47; the adults used RPGs (Rocket Propelled Grenades) 
and other bigger weapons. I fired the gun but am not sure if I killed people. On 
the road enemy soldiers came and I tried to run away but a rocket hit my leg. 
Four people were wounded and some others died in the attack. Government 
soldiers came and took me to Phebe hospital…. they amputated my leg... I want 
to go to school and start a small business.’ 20
(J.K., a boy aged 14 years, from Bong Count, Liberia, was captured by former 
government forces in June 2003)
The UK is also a storage and distribution centre for Kalashnikov weapons from the 
Balkans. In May 2006, it was reported that over 20,000 Kalashnikovs have been 
imported into the UK by three UK companies: York Guns, Jago (UK) Ltd, and 
Procurement Management Services Ltd.21 Documentation issued by EUFOR peace-
keeping forces in Bosnia shows that these inter-related UK companies have been 
involved in the procurement of thousands of weapons from Bosnian stockpiles. One of 
the directors of Jago is the owner of Transarms, a German gun dealership that trades in 
large quantities of AK-47 ammunition and other items. Since such military 
specification weaponry cannot be sold on the UK private internal gun market (current 
UK law forbids the private ownership of an AK-47 rifle), it is assumed that such 
weapons must be for subsequent re-export. York Guns’ manager has denied 
purchasing the Kalashnikov rifles from Bosnia.
The human cost
Kalashnikov assault rifles have been used for unlawful killing, wounding, and 
infliction of other types of suffering in very many countries, including countries as 
diverse as Afghanistan, Britain, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Iraq, Mexico, 
Sierra Leone, the USA, Venezuela, and Yemen.
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
5
--- 페이지 6 ---
In the areas of armed conflict and repression in Africa, Kalashnikov rifles have gained 
a reputation for mass destruction and terror. The gross misuse of these assault rifles by 
unaccountable and poorly trained combatants and fighters has been responsible for 
millions of direct and indirect deaths in Angola, Chad, DRC, Liberia, Mozambique, 
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda, and elsewhere. For example, in the DRC, militia 
leaders have exploited the relative lightness and simplicity of the AK-47 to equip many 
of the 30,000–35,000 child soldiers, many of whom have been sexually abused by their 
commanders, and forced to kill or to witness atrocities.22
‘He ordered us to loot everything they had, to drive them away and to destroy 
their homes…. our commander gave the order to kill anyone who put up any 
resistance. He ordered me personally to do that and told two other soldiers to 
watch over me and kill me if I refused to obey. And so I killed, I fired on these 
people. They brought me a woman and her children and I had to put them in a 
hole and bury them alive. They were screaming and pleading with me to spare 
them and release them. I took pity on them, but then I looked over my shoulder 
at the two soldiers watching me, and I said to myself: “If I let them go, these 
soldiers are going to kill me.” And so I went ahead and buried the woman and 
children alive, to save my own life.’ 23
(Olivier began life as a child soldier at the age of 11 in the DRC)
It is estimated that 50–60 per cent of the weapons used in this conflict are AK-47s or 
derivatives. In November 2005, Control Arms researchers investigated the origin of 
1,100 weapons collected by international peace-keepers in eastern DRC. Whilst a 
significant number were identified as Chinese-type 56 AK-47 derivatives, there were 
ten more Kalashnikov derivatives, manufactured in Egypt, Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, 
and Russia.24
Beyond Africa, the misuse of Kalashnikov rifles is prevalent in many parts of the 
world, fuelling conflict, crime, and poverty. In Novo Laredo, a Mexican town close to 
the US border, more than 100 people were killed in suspected drug cartel operations in 
2005 alone; the majority killed using the Kalashnikov. ‘For the narco-traffickers, it’s 
[the AK-47] like their good luck charm’, said one Mexican police official. In northern 
Mexico, the AK is called the ‘goat’s horn’, on account of its curved magazine, by the 
drug lords and their soldiers who use it to murder business rivals, police officers, and 
bystanders.25 In the UK, an AK assault rifle was used to massacre 17 civilians in 
Hungerford in 1987, as well as in the gangland murder of David King in 2003.26 In the 
USA, the weapon has been used to murder government employees outside the CIA’s 
headquarters in Langley Virginia. On January 25, an individual opened fire with an 
AK-47 assault rifle, killing two people and wounding three others. Between 1998 and 
2001, according to FBI data, over one in five law enforcement officers killed in the line 
of duty were killed with assault rifles and over 800 law enforcement officials have 
supported the campaign to keep assault rifles out of civilian hands. 27
Systematic abuse has been particularly strong in Afghanistan, where the weapons have 
been supplied over the past thirty years in their hundreds of thousands by the former 
Soviet Union, the USA, Pakistan, Iran, India, Saudi Arabia, and others to militia 
groups, warlords, and armies.28 In Yemen, Kalashnikovs have been used to massacre 
schoolchildren,29 while in Liberia and Sierra Leone children who should have been at 
school have used Kalashnikovs to massacre adults.
Nowhere is the chaos and carnage caused by the misuse of military assault rifles more 
clearly demonstrated than in the current situation in Iraq. Violent deaths are increasing 
dramatically in Baghdad, and conflicts and insurgent attacks have claimed at least
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
6
--- 페이지 7 ---
25,000 civilian lives across Iraq 30. Kalashnikov assault rifles and ammunition are 
readily available. When Saddam Hussein’s government was toppled in 2003, it was 
estimated that there were about 20 million weapons, largely AK-47 and derivatives, in 
Iraq. Thousands more have entered the country since the US and allied military 
occupation. Although a high proportion of such violence is carried out with bombs and 
other weapons, the proliferation of Kalashnikov rifles in Iraq in unaccountable and 
poorly trained hands is a major contributing factor.
The NGO, Doctors for Iraq, reports that it has seen a massive increase in the number of 
patients with bullet wounds in Baghdad. It says the victims are usually men between 
18 and 45 years old, and that most are killed or injured by automatic weapons fired at 
close range. It also estimates that up to 150 senior doctors have been assassinated since 
2003.31 Nearly three years after US and allied forces invaded Iraq, the human rights 
situation in the country remains dire. Widespread abuses amid the ongoing conflict, 
including incidents of torture and ill treatment, and attacks by armed groups, have 
continued unabated. Moreover, several Iraqi families are now being forced to leave 
their homes out of fear – the Iraqi Ministry of Displacement and Migration recently 
said that around 10,000 families have been uprooted as a result of the ongoing 
sectarian killings.32
The future of the Kalashnikov
With the production of new variants, including the new Russian AK-100 series, the 
demand for Kalashnikov rifles is likely to remain strong in the future, with many 
producers also now offering the weapon in NATO calibre for export markets. Evidence 
suggests that the Kalashnikov 7.62 x 39 mm calibre assault rifle will remain the 
dominant military assault rifle in many of parts of the world at least for the next two 
decades and probably longer.
Venezuela has recently signed production contracts for large numbers of Kalashnikov 
weapons. In June 2005, Jane’s Defence reported that Venezuela had ordered 100,000 
Kalashnikov AK-103 assault rifles in a US$54 million deal. The deal also involved 
assembly of the weapons in Venezuela, adding another production centre for the 
Kalashnikov, its first in the Americas.33 In June 2006 it was reported that an initial 
batch of some 30,000 weapons had been delivered. The deal has caused controversy in 
the USA, as the US government believes that weapons produced in Venezuela may 
end up in the hands of Colombian rebels.34 Kalashnikovs have been supplied to 
Colombian rebels before from within the region; in 1999, under a deal involving 
corrupt officials in Peru, more than 10,000 AK-47 derivatives brokered from Jordan 
were diverted to FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia) guerrillas in 
Colombia, who are documented as serious human rights abusers. 35
The production of the world’s assault rifles has not been effectively controlled, 
especially the two most prolific and widely misused assault rifles, the AK-47 and its 
variants and the G3. For both these weapons, there has been widespread international 
production through largely uncontrolled licensed production agreements and, in the 
case of the AK-47, also through unlicensed production. The proliferation of such 
production capacity was allowed originally by the Russian and German governments, 
where the technology began and such rifles were made, but has become the 
responsibility of more and more governments. In the case of many producers of AK 
variants and derivatives, often there is no production agreement at all36. Often, new 
production capacity has resulted in surplus stocks of older assault rifles, and such
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
7
--- 페이지 8 ---
stocks become the source of new cheap and poorly regulated supplies onto the 
increasingly global market.
Evidence strongly suggests that more effective international regulation of unlicensed 
arms production and of licensed arms production agreements needs to be a priority, as 
well as tough and effective international, regional, and national controls over transfers 
of such weapons themselves, based on states’ existing obligations under relevant 
international law. Such measures are fundamental to help prevent these deadly assault 
rifles from falling into the wrong hands.
Conclusions and recommendations
The proliferation of, and ease of access to AK-47 and similar assault rifles around the 
world, more than any other small arm or light weapon, continues to result in mass 
suffering, with no end in sight. Military assault rifles are intended to be battlefield 
weapons; they are not designed to be used as normal instruments of law enforcement, 
nor are they weapons that should be allowed to end up in civilian hands. The danger 
of unlawful killing and injuries is clearly increased when gangs are wielding automatic 
and semi-automatic military specification firearms which can fire many rounds in 
rapid succession. The bullets fired from many types of assault weapons are designed to 
pass through humans and also through structures, and therefore pose a heightened 
risk of hitting passers-by. All states must therefore act with due diligence to restrict 
access to assault rifles and ensure the highest possible standards in the management, 
transfer and use of such weapons.
All governments have a duty under international humanitarian law such as the 
Geneva Conventions and Protocols to ensure that their military personnel do not use 
assault rifles and other weapons to target civilians or for indiscriminate attacks. In 
addition, the circumstances in which law enforcement officials may use force, and the 
level of force they may use, should be governed by strict laws, regulations and training 
procedures consistent with international human rights standards. Currently, all 
governments have a duty to ensure that such use is consistent with the United Nations 
Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials and the United Nations Basic 
Principles for the Use of Force and Firearms. These standards should apply to all 
officials carrying out law enforcement functions, including police, immigration, 
customs and other security officials, border guards, and sometimes paramilitary and 
military personnel, insofar as they are given special powers to use force and firearms 
where necessary. This is vital as such officials are armed with military assault rifles 
such as AK-47s, which pose a much greater risk to civilians than normal police 
firearms.
The mass suffering inflicted with assault rifles and other small arms and light weapons 
will continue as long as governments fail to uphold such human rights and 
humanitarian standards, and allow the transfer of such weapons and their ammunition 
to poorly trained, unaccountable armed forces. It will continue as long as they allow 
arms traffickers to supply criminals or rebel groups that commit atrocities  and abuse 
in violation of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. The situation will be 
even worse if the massive surplus stockpiles of Kalashnikov and other assault rifles, 
and their ammunition, are not destroyed, and if the global spread of production 
facilities is allowed to continue unabated with so little effective control.
Evidence suggests that overseas licensed production of conventional weapons systems, 
including assault rifles, will continue to increase. The multiplication of supply sources
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
8
--- 페이지 9 ---
in many parts of the world makes it imperative to effectively control the production 
facilities and surplus stockpiles if lives are to be saved. Governments will not succeed 
in this task without establishing international standards and co-operative measures, 
including the development of effective global standards over the transfer of weapons. 
Such standards are crucial to ensuring that all manufacturers and exporters are 
adhering to the same rules.
In particular, four concerted measures by governments to address this issue would be a 
life-saving step forward. These measures should be taken without delay: 
 
1. Adopt tough global standards on arms transfers. Governments must adopt a new 
global set of rules for transfers of arms and ammunition at the United Nations Review 
Conference of the 2001 Programme of Action on small arms and light weapons in New 
York in June/July 2006. Also, in October 2006, at the UN General Assembly, 
governments must agree to negotiate a new global Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), covering 
all conventional weapons. Both agreements must be based on fundamental principles 
of international law and prohibit the transfers of weapons and ammunition to end 
users who are likely to use them for gross violations of international human rights law, 
serious violations of international humanitarian law, crimes against humanity, acts of 
genocide, or other serious abuses that violate the existing obligations of states, as set 
out in the Global Principles in Appendix 1 of this report. To be effective, the 
development of global and regional minimum standards must be complemented with 
strengthened national controls on the production, transfers, holdings, and use of 
assault rifles and other small arms and light weapons and their ammunition.  
 
2. Control licensed production. All international arms and ammunition production 
agreements licensed by companies should first be considered on a case-by-case basis 
by relevant governments before they are allowed to take place, and no permit for 
licensed arms production should be issued if there is a risk that transfers from overseas 
production facilities would be used in violation of states’ existing obligations under 
international law, or contrary to other relevant norms of non proliferation as set out in 
the Global Principles. (see Appendix 1). Moreover, no licensed production should be 
authorised without a legally binding agreement, in each case, on production ceilings 
and permitted export destinations for the product. Any exports to other end users not 
stated in the original licensed production agreement must require prior authorisation 
from the licence provider and its home government.  
 
3. Secure existing stockpiles. All states should ensure the highest possible standards 
for the management and security of stockpiles of arms and ammunition. Governments 
should without delay develop and agree common minimum standards for such 
stockpile security, including safe and secure storage of arms and ammunition, as well 
as accurate record-keeping of inventories, including serial numbers of every weapon 
held in stockpiles. Surplus stocks of arms should be destroyed. This principle was 
included by governments in the 2001 UN Small Arms Programme of Action on small 
arms and light weapons. Since then most governments appear to have chosen merely 
to prioritise the destruction of unsafe or unusable surplus, whilst continuing to transfer 
varying quantities of surplus weapons, including assault rifles, from their stockpiles. In 
some cases, transfers from arms and ammunition stockpiles has been vast. At the 2006 
UN Review Conference, governments should re-affirm their commitment to the 
destruction of surplus stockpiles of small arms and light weapons to prevent the 
proliferation of such weapons and therefore help reduce the risk of them falling into 
the wrong hands. International donor funding and technical capacity will be required
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
9
--- 페이지 10 ---
to achieve this. Greater efforts by states in these areas are imperative to prevent 
dealers, traffickers, and brokers from supplying such weapons to areas where they are 
likely to fuel conflict, undermine sustainable development, and contribute to countless 
human rights violations. 
 
4. Address the demand for weapons. Governments must also increase their efforts to 
reduce the demand for assault rifles and other small arms and light weapons. This 
requires several key integrated measures, starting with the reform of law enforcement 
agencies and military forces to ensure they meet standards of international human 
rights and humanitarian law and are representative and responsive to the community 
as a whole. Such reforms will build public confidence in security and will better enable 
governments and international agencies to incorporate weapons collection 
programmes into peace building strategies, both as immediate post-conflict 
disarmament programmes as well as longer-term projects aiming to remove as many 
surplus and illegal weapons and ammunition from unauthorised users as possible. 
Such disarmament programmes should be designed to benefit the whole community, 
and weapons collection schemes should involve participation of all relevant 
stakeholders in the affected communities, including political and traditional leaders, 
business, trade union, religious, media, youth and women’s groups, and local 
authorities and law enforcement agencies. The more inclusive the participation, the 
more likely the programme will be to benefit from public trust and legitimacy.
Weapons collection, wherever possible, should be designed around non-cash 
incentives such as ‘weapons for development’ schemes. Governments and local 
authorities, in partnership with civil society and police, should develop participatory 
community safety programmes that promote practical ways of halting the violence 
arising from the proliferation and misuse of firearms.
It is not possible to halt the proliferation of assault rifles and other firearms amongst 
civilian populations unless their governments make it compulsory in law and practice 
for anyone who wants to own a gun to get a licence. In line with the best practice 
worldwide, gun licences for private individuals should only be issued by government 
authorities in accordance with strict criteria that exclude the granting of licences to 
those with a history of violence in the home or community, and which take into 
account the declared reasons for requesting a licence, the context in which the 
application is made, and the likelihood of misuse. States should ban private 
individuals from owning military specification assault weapons, including AK-47s, 
other than in the most exceptional circumstances consistent with respect for human 
rights.
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
10
--- 페이지 11 ---
Appendix 1: Global principles for arms transfers
Compilation of global principles for arms transfers
The following Principles bring together states’ existing obligations under international 
law and standards in respect of the international transfer of arms and are proposed by 
a diverse group of non-government organisations.37 The Principles reflect many 
international instruments of a different nature: universal treaties, regional treaties, 
declarations of the United Nations, multilateral or regional organisations, and 
regulations intended to be a model for national legislation, etc.
Some of the Principles reflect customary land treaty law, while others reflect 
developing law or best practices gaining wide acceptance. The compilation indicates to 
states the best general rules to adopt in order to establish effective control of 
international transfers of all conventional arms according to the rule of law and in 
recognition of states’ right to legitimate self-defence and duty of law enforcement 
according to international standards.
Principle 1: Responsibilities of states
All international transfers of arms shall be authorised by all states with jurisdiction 
over any part of the transfer (including import, export, transit, transhipment, and 
brokering) and carried out in accordance with national laws and procedures that 
reflect, as a minimum, states’ obligations under international law. Authorisation of 
each transfer shall be granted by designated state officials in writing only if the transfer 
in question first conforms to the Principles set out below in this instrument and shall 
not be granted if it is likely that the arms will be diverted from their intended legal 
recipient or re-exported contrary to the aims of these Principles.
Principle 2: Express limitations
States shall not authorise international transfers of arms that violate their expressed 
obligations under international law. These obligations include:
A. Obligations under the Charter of the United Nations – including:
a. binding resolutions of the Security Council, such as those imposing arms 
embargoes;
b. the prohibition on the use or threat of force;
c. the prohibition on intervention in the internal affairs of another state.
B. Any other treaty or decision by which that state is bound, including:
a. binding decisions, including embargoes, adopted by relevant international, 
multilateral, regional, and sub-regional organisations to which a state is 
party;
b. prohibitions on arms transfers that arise in particular treaties which a state 
is party to, such as the 1980 UN Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions 
on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May be Deemed to be
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
11
--- 페이지 12 ---
Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, and its Protocols, 
and the 1997 Anti-personnel Mine Ban Convention.
C. Universally accepted principles of international humanitarian law – including:
a. the prohibition on the use of arms that are of a nature to cause 
superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering;
b. the prohibition on weapons that are incapable of distinguishing 
between combatants and civilians.
Principle 3: Limitations based on use or likely use
States shall not authorise international transfers of arms where they will be used or are 
likely to be used for violations of international law, including:
A. breaches of the UN Charter and customary law rules relating to the use of force;
B. gross violations of international human rights law;
C. serious violations of international humanitarian law;
D. acts of genocide or crimes against humanity.
Principle 4: Factors to be taken into account
States shall take into account other factors, including the likely use of the arms, before 
authorising an arms transfer, including the recipient’s record of compliance with 
commitments and transparency in the field of non-proliferation, arms control, and 
disarmament. States should not authorise the transfer if it is likely to:
A. be used for or to facilitate terrorist attacks;
B. be used for or to facilitate the commission of violent or organised crime;
C. adversely affect regional security or stability;
D. adversely affect sustainable development;
E. involve corrupt practices;
F. contravene other international, regional, or sub-regional commitments or decisions 
made, or agreements on non-proliferation, arms control, and disarmament to 
which the exporting, importing, or transit states are party.
Principle 5: Transparency
States shall submit comprehensive national annual reports on international arms 
transfers to an international registry, which shall publish a compiled, comprehensive, 
international annual report. Such reports should cover the international transfer of all 
conventional arms including small arms and light weapons.
Principle 6: Comprehensive controls
States shall establish common standards for specific mechanisms to control:
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
12
--- 페이지 13 ---
1. all import and export of arms;
2. arms brokering activities;
3. transfers of arms production capacity; and
4. the transit and trans-shipment of arms.
States shall establish operative provisions to monitor enforcement and review 
procedures to strengthen the full implementation of the Principles.
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
13
--- 페이지 14 ---
Notes
1 The AK-47 is the model number given to the original assault rifle. It has been upgraded in 
Russia and produced as variants in many other countries in the world. Rifles in the AK family 
are often referred to as Kalashnikovs after the inventor of the AK-47, Lieutenant General Mikhail 
Kalashnikov.
2 Interview given to the Control Arms Campaign, June 2006.
3 See ‘The call for tough arms controls: voices from Sierra Leone’, Control Arms Campaign, 
January 2006.
4 See Jane’s Infantry Weapons 2006–2007, edited by Richard D. Jones and Leland Ness, 
p.203.
5 Op cit., Jane’s Infantry Weapons 2006–2007.
6 ‘An Experience of War Surgery and Wounds Presenting After 3 Days on the Border of 
Afghanistan’, by R. M. Coupland and P.R. Howell, 1998, Injury 19:259–62.
7 See http://world.guns.ru/assault/as02-e.htm.
8 As a battlefield infantry weapon, the Kalashnikov falls well within accuracy specifications for 
assault rifles. Its reputation for poor accuracy can be attributed to its widespread misuse rather 
than any production or design fault with the weapon itself. Many armed groups that use AK 
weapons are inadequately trained. Also at fault is the usually poor quality ammunition which is 
often very old and procured from vast surplus stockpiles in Eastern Europe and elsewhere.
9 Key Kalashnikov variants include: Albanian Type A, B, and C; Bulgarian AR-M1 and AR-SF; 
Chinese Type 65; Hungarian AKM-63 and AMD-65; Iraqi Tabuk; North Korean Type 58 and 68; 
Poland’s AKM Kainek and Tantal; Romania’s AKM 63 and 65, and the Serbian Zastava M70. 
For more information see Jane’s Infantry Weapons 2006–2007; http://world.guns.ru/; 
kalashnikov.guns.ru/; and http://www.ak-47.us/.
10 Ibid.; see also http://world.guns.ru/ and kalashnikov.guns.ru/ and http://www.ak-47.us/
11 Ibid., see National Inventories section, pages 871 to 885.
12 Telephone interview with assault rifle specialist, 26 May 2006. The Control Arms campaign 
would like to thank the National Firearms Resource Centre, UK, for its assistance in compiling 
the report.
13 ‘Rip-off Kalashnikov Clash’, New Scientist, 31 July 2004.
14 ‘From the Factory to the Firing Line: the story of one bullet’, by David Pratt, Sunday Herald, 9 
October 2005. See also ‘The Little Weapons of Mass Destruction’, by Pamela Bone, The Age, 
22 February 2003.
15 ‘Who’s a Pirate? Russia points back at the US’, by C.J. Chivers, New York Times, 26 July 
2004.
16 Estimates provided by EUFOR and sources close to the Serbian & Montenegrin Ministry of 
Defence.
17 EUFOR arms export authorisations for Bosnian arms transfers to Burundi, Guinea, and 
Uganda, unpublished, as seen by Amnesty International.
18 See ‘Dead on Time – arms transportation, brokering and the threat to human rights’, Amnesty 
International report, 10 May 2006, Chapter 8.
19 See Letter to the UN Secretary General, report on the arms embargo on Liberia, 24 April 
2003, s/2003/498.
20 ‘Liberia: the promises of peace for 21,000 child soldiers’, Amnesty Internatoinal Report, 17 
May 2004, AFR 34/006/2004.
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
14
--- 페이지 15 ---
21 See http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/file_on_4/5006196.stm, company documents and 
email correspsondence also made available to Control Arms campaign.
22 See Amnesty International, ‘Democratic Republic of Congo: Alarming resurgence in 
recruitment of children in North-Kivu’ [AFR 62/009/2006], 31 March 2006; Amnesty 
International, ‘Democratic Republic of Congo: North-Kivu: Civilians pay the price for political and 
military rivalry’ [AFR 62/013/2005], 28 September 2005; Amnesty International, ‘Democratic 
Republic of Congo: arming the east’ [AFR 62/006/2005], 5 July 2005; and Amnesty 
International, ‘Democratic Republic of Congo: Public appeal: Still under the gun: More child 
soldiers recruited’ 
AFR 62/009/2004], 1 June 2004.
23 ‘DR Congo: Child soldiers tell their stories’, Amnesty International testimonies, 9 September 
2003, AFR 62/038/2003.
24 Ibid. From serial numbers and other evidence, the origin of AK weapons was determined by 
the UK’s National Firearms Centre in December 2005.
25 ‘Guns flow easily into Mexico from the US’, by Hector Tobar, The Los Angeles Times, 8 
January 2006.
26 See http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2-1752747,00.html.
27 See http://www.bradycampaign.org/facts/faqs/?page=awb.
28 Ghost Wars – The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan and Bin Laden, from the Soviet 
Invasion to September 10, 2001, Steve Coll, Penguin 2005; Charlie Wilson’s War: The 
Extraordinary Story of the Largest Covert Operation in History, George Crile, Blackstone 2004.
29 “Gunman attacks school in Southern Yemen, kill eight.” AP Press, 7/30/2003
30 ‘25,000 civilians killed in Iraq’, BBC World Service, July 19 2005.
31 Information provided by Doctors for Iraq to Oxfam, June 2006.
32 ‘Ten thousand Iraqi families displaced by violence: official’, Agence France-Presse, 13 April 
2006.
33 Jane’s Defence Weekly, 15 June 2006.
34 See ‘Chávez in Russia Deal to Build Gun Factory’, Financial Times, 6 June 2006.
35 ‘US Shrugged off Corruption, Abuse in Service of Drug War’, The Centre for Public Integrity, 
available at http://www.publicintegrity.org/report.aspx?aid=257.
36 ‘Russia wants control over Kalashnikov brand’, BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union, April 28 
2006.
37 This group of non-government organisations includes: Africa Peace Forum, Amnesty 
International, Arias Foundation, Caritas International, Friends Committee on National 
Legislation, Non-Violence International, IANSA, Oxfam International, Project Ploughshares, 
Saferworld, Schweitzer Institute, Sou da Paz, Viva Rio, and WINAD. Advisors to SC are the 
Federation of American Scientists and the Lauterpacht Centre, Cambridge University. The 
group has agreed the Global Principles as a collective proposal.
The AK-47, Control Arms Campaign, June 2006 
15
--- 페이지 16 ---
© Amnesty International, the International Action Network on Small Arms, and 
Oxfam International, June 2006 
This paper was written by Oliver Sprague (Oxfam GB) and Hugh Griffiths 
(independent research consultant), with special thanks to Brian Wood (Amnesty 
International). The text may be used free of charge for the purposes of advocacy, 
campaigning, education, and research, provided that the source is acknowledged in 
full. The copyright holders request that all such use be registered with them for 
impact assessment purposes. For copying in any other circumstances, or for re-use 
in other publications, or for translation or adaptation, permission must be secured 
and a fee may be charged.
Copies are available to download from www.controlarms.org 
AI Index – ACT 30/011/2006
Title, Control Arms Campaign, Month Year 
16
--- 페이지 17 ---
Amnesty International is an independent 
worldwide voluntary activist movement working 
for human rights, with more than 1.5 million 
members, supporters and subscribers in over 150 
countries and territories. It has national sections 
in 54 countries in every region of the world.
Email: info@amnesty.org.uk
The International Action Network on Small Arms 
is the global movement against gun violence - 
more than 500 civil society organisations working 
in 100 countries to stop the proliferation and 
misuse of small arms and light weapons. IANSA 
seeks to reduce the impact of small arms through 
advocacy, promoting the development of regional 
and thematic networks, supporting capacity 
building and raising awareness.
Email: contact@iansa.org
Oxfam International is a confederation of twelve 
organisations working together in more than 100 
countries to find lasting solutions to poverty and 
injustice: Oxfam America, Oxfam Australia, 
Oxfam-in-Belgium, Oxfam Canada, Oxfam 
Germany, Oxfam Great Britain, Oxfam Hong 
Kong, Intermón Oxfam (Spain), Oxfam Ireland, 
Oxfam New Zealand, Oxfam Novib, and Oxfam 
Quebec. www.oxfam.org.
Email: advocacy@oxfaminternational.org
--- 페이지 18 ---
The AK-47: the world’s 
favourite killing machine
Arms are out of control
Arms kill more than half a million men, women, and children on average 
each year. Many thousands more are maimed, or tortured, or forced to 
flee their homes. The uncontrolled proliferation of arms fuels human 
rights violations, escalates conflicts, and intensifies poverty. The time 
for world leaders to act is now.
To confront this crisis, Oxfam, Amnesty International, and the 
International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA) have together 
launched an international campaign calling for effective arms controls 
to make people genuinely safer from the threat of armed violence.
You can help us to put an end to this horrific abuse.
Log on to the control arms website and become part of the largest, 
most effective visual petition in the world. 
www.controlarms.org
Published by Oxfam International June 2006 
Published by Oxfam GB for Oxfam International under ISBN 978-1-84814-642-6