제목: The World's Most Popular Gun
저자: Victor Davis Hanson

--- 페이지 1 ---
140 ~ The New Atlantis
State of the Art
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
N
o firearm in history has 
enjoyed the fame or popular-
ity of the assault rifle known 
as the AK-47, or Kalashnikov. Created 
by a Soviet weapons designer at the 
dawn of the Cold War, it was mass-
produced and distributed worldwide in 
the millions, leading to its canonization 
in the revolutionary Third World of the 
1950s and 1960s. Indeed, far beyond its 
utility, the AK-47 became a Cold War 
icon, appearing on revolutionary flags, 
in songs and poems, and in televised 
insurgencies as proof of communist fer-
vor and supposed martial superiority. 
And it continues to play a major role in 
warfare today, most visibly in guerrilla 
conflicts in Africa and the Middle East.
The AK-47 has succeeded so wildly 
because it is almost an ideal realization 
of the personal firearm: where most 
weapons have had to contend with 
tradeoffs between accuracy, lethality, 
speed of fire, reliability, cost of produc-
tion, and ease of carrying and use, the 
AK-47 managed to find a sweet spot 
maximizing these traits. In fact, the 
weapon is so reliable, effective, and 
easy to use by untrained operators that 
its advent made it widely possible for 
just about any group, even with little 
money, modern technology, or formal 
military training, to mount significant, 
deadly assaults against a much larger 
and more advanced force — a fact that 
has transformed the face of warfare
and created a revolutionary romance 
that still surrounds the weapon.
Since gunpowder is not static in 
power in the way that human muscle 
is, once fiery arms were invented in the 
fourteenth century, they would in the-
ory constantly improve in a way that 
bows, slings, and swords could not. 
But in reality, centuries of technologi-
cal stagnation followed the invention 
of the first gun: for example, the eigh-
teenth- and nineteenth-­century “Brown 
Bess” flintlock musket remained almost 
unchanged during its use by the British 
Empire over the course of more than a 
century. Early muskets and their pre-
decessors had slow rates of fire and 
poor accuracy and reliability, and thus 
did not always ensure battlefield supe-
riority over arrows, edged weapons, 
and hand-launched missiles. Benjamin 
Franklin famously advocated the use of 
bows by the cash-strapped Continental 
Army, arguing that they were cheaper, 
easier to use, and could send more 
arrows per minute than the musket 
could fire balls.
The problem was that the vari-
ous qualities of a good handheld 
weapon were often mutually exclu-
sive. Increased lethality, for instance, 
was usually attained by increasing 
the weight of the firearm and bul-
lets, which often reduced reliability 
and mobility, and made weapons too 
expensive to outfit an entire army. So
The World’s Most Popular Gun
The Long Road to the AK-47
--- 페이지 2 ---
Summer 2011 ~ 141
A Survey of Technology and Society
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
the development of personal firearms 
was often haphazard, especially during 
periods of general peace. Black-powder, 
muzzle-loading, smoothbore (unrifled) 
firearms were the norm for centuries. 
Only in the mid-nineteenth century 
did sophisticated metallurgy and tech-
niques of mass production at last begin 
to usher in rear-loading models, car-
tridge ammunition, more powerful and 
smokeless gunpowder, rifled barrels, 
and interchangeable, machined parts. 
The result was a giant leap in the 
ability of soldiers to kill one another 
on a mass scale, as the ancient science 
of effective body armor was unable to 
keep pace. By the nineteenth century, 
the personal arms race was on.
The watershed years were those of 
the American Civil War, which cre-
ated a race for more rapidly firing 
and lethal arms. The war that began 
with the use of muskets and Minié 
balls ended with the Henry repeating 
rifle, which allowed a skilled single 
shooter to load and fire up to twenty-
eight times per minute. The war also 
saw the development of the Gatling 
machine gun, and, somewhat later, 
the Maxim, the first fully automatic 
weapon. The more advanced models
of these machines could in theory spit 
out six hundred rounds per minute, 
allowing two-man teams to lay down 
a volume of fire greater than what 
was possible from a whole company 
of riflemen. The new machine guns 
proved revolutionary, especially in the 
colonial wars in Africa, Asia, and Latin 
America, in which small numbers of 
Westerners could trump numerically 
superior foes, sending a chilling mes-
sage of technological superiority. The 
venerable traditions of the mounted 
lancer, the cavalryman, and the skilled 
swordsman slipped into decline with 
the advent of the machine gun.
But the early machine guns, though 
rapid-fire and quite lethal, were heavy 
and they often jammed, leaving their 
operators defenseless. And they were 
costly and difficult to move and maneu-
ver. Nevertheless, during World War I, 
improved mobile Maxim, Vickers, and 
Colt-Browning machine guns reigned 
supreme across the trenches, overpow-
ering the firing rates of bolt-action, clip-
fed rifles. In response to the machine 
gun’s lethal tyranny on the battle-
field, early twentieth-century tacticians 
began dreaming of an everyman’s mini-
machine gun that would diffuse such
AK-47: The Weapon that 
Changed the Face of War
By Larry Kahaner
Wiley ~ 2006  
272 pp. ~ $25.95 (cloth)
The Gun
By C. J. Chivers
Simon & Schuster ~ 2010
496 pp. ~ $28 (cloth)
The Gun that Changed
the World
By Mikhail Kalashnikov
with Elena Joy
Polity ~ 2007 
224 pp. ~ $19.95 (paper)
--- 페이지 3 ---
142 ~ The New Atlantis
State of the Art
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
killing power into the hands of millions 
of combatants.
The result was the generation of 
the so-called submachine gun, most 
prominently the German MP-18, the 
Italian Villar Perosa and Beretta Model 
1918, and the American Thompson (or 
Tommy Gun). These weapons fired 
pistol cartridges, allowing for the 
employment of existing stocks; they 
were relatively light at around ten 
pounds; and they could in theory be 
shot at astounding rates of fire of well 
over 400 rounds per minute. Whereas 
World War I was defined by heavy 
machine guns battling each other in 
antipodal fashion across clearly defined 
fields of fire, battles of World War 
II were frequently fought in jungles, 
forests, and urban streets, in which the 
enemy was typically near and highly 
mobile. Submachine guns proved pop-
ular during this war — and spawned a 
number of cheaper ­imitations — thanks 
to their adaptability to a situation in 
which constant streams of bullets were 
directed at soldiers from every direc-
tion by constantly moving enemies, 
and enemies were more likely to be 
stopped by sudden, rapid fire than 
by precisely aimed shots from small, 
­longer-barrel weapons.
Yet, for a variety of reasons, the 
new submachine guns could still not 
entirely replace clip-fed repeating 
rifles. While they delivered far more 
bullets per minute, their short bar-
rels allowed only for poor accuracy 
and limited range. The less powerful 
pistol cartridges and greater recoil 
from near-continuous fire also meant
that few submachine guns were deadly 
beyond two hundred yards — a poten-
tially fatal limitation at the times when 
rifle sharpshooters had clear fields 
of fire at over a thousand yards. The 
constant rapid firing, together with 
the grime, heat, and filthy conditions 
of battle, made the submachine guns 
jam far too frequently. And another 
problem developed during the war that 
transcended the weapons’ advantage 
of rapid firing: heavily-laden soldiers 
simply could not carry enough addi-
tional bullets — often larger-caliber .30 
and .45 ammunition — to take advan-
tage of their guns’ voracious appetites.
On the other hand, repeating rifles, 
even when semi-automatic and equipped 
with enlarged clips and improved bar-
rel and stock designs that allowed a 
good chance of hits at great distances, 
did not allow enough shots per minute 
for the increasingly close-order combat 
in which enemy soldiers might appear 
suddenly en masse, and in all conceiv-
able landscapes. Their longer barrels 
and clumsy shoulder stocks certainly 
proved a hindrance during close-in 
fighting. Other tradeoffs arose as mil-
lions of combatants joined the Allies or 
Axis powers in a global war, allowing 
little time to ensure traditional marks-
manship training for men from such 
widely disparate backgrounds. The 
advantages that could be gained from 
employing a more accurate, slower-
firing, traditional semi-automatic rifle 
were often lost by the inexperience 
of the users. There had been design 
attempts during World War I to bridge 
these differences, the most successful
--- 페이지 4 ---
Summer 2011 ~ 143
A Survey of Technology and Society
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
of which was the American Browning 
Automatic Rifle. It was almost as accu-
rate as a rifle, but with a weight of over 
fifteen pounds and a small magazine of 
just twenty rounds, riflemen often had 
to shoot from a prone position, with 
a barrel tripod and plenty of available 
magazines nearby.
But in the post-World War II era, 
a true breakthrough addressed the 
apparently irreconcilable advantages of 
submachine guns and repeating, clip-
fed rifles. The brilliant compromise 
became known as the “assault rifle,” 
the most prominent of which was the 
Russian Mikhail Kalashnikov’s AK-
47 (for automatic Kalashnikov, model 
1947), which came into wide use in the 
early 1950s. Kalashnikov, who benefit-
ed from the designs of earlier German 
and Russian prototypes, seemingly at 
last solved the six-hundred-year-long 
dilemma of providing an accurate rifle 
that was not only capable of firing 
hundreds of rounds per minute, but 
was still deadly at ranges of 300-400 
yards and beyond. And at under ten 
pounds, the AK-47 was easy to carry, 
simple to operate, and highly depend-
able. Moreover, by using a medium-
sized bullet (the 7.62x39mm cartridge, 
equivalent to about .31 caliber) rather 
than larger .40 caliber rounds, the AK-
47 achieved a deadly muzzle velocity 
of over 2,300 feet per second. In short, 
Kalashnikov seemed to have squared 
the circle by creating a light, cheap, 
rapid-firing, accurate, reliable, and 
lethal weapon that was neither rifle nor 
submachine gun. The gun proved per-
fect for revolutionaries in Third World
countries, and the Kremlin would glee-
fully reward its new friends with mass 
deliveries of their wondrous weapon.
The sudden ubiquity of the AK-47 
stunned the United States and Europe, 
and seemed to turn the so-called First 
World’s advantages in marksmanship 
and weapon craftsmanship on their heads. 
Illiterate insurgents, amply equipped 
with cheap AK-47s — now produced 
even more inexpensively by an array 
of Soviet satellite ­countries — suddenly 
had at their disposal more firepower 
than American soldiers. And what did 
it matter if Western riflemen were in 
theory better trained or shot a better 
calibrated and more accurate weapon, 
when mere teenagers in the tens of 
thousands could pepper Western troops 
with bullets?
The widespread export of the AK-
47 marked yet another Sputnik-like 
moment in which state communism 
seemed to outpace Western entrepre-
neurialism. And just as the Soviets’ 
Sputnik success would set off the space 
race, and as there were other rivalries 
between the Soviet T-34 tank and its 
American counterparts, and between 
MiG-15 and F-86 jet fighters in the 
skies of Korea, so too was there a 
competition in assault rifle technol-
ogy. Not until the early 1960s did the 
Americans accept that their old reli-
able M1 and its replacement M14 were 
woefully wrong for the new non-tradi-
tional theaters of the Cold War.
If a new American assault weapon 
were to follow in the Kalashnikov 
model, it would have to trump its 
Russian competitor with greater
--- 페이지 5 ---
144 ~ The New Atlantis
State of the Art
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
­accuracy and lethality. This goal was 
seemingly accomplished with the M16 
rifle, invented in the 1950s by the leg-
endary arms designer Eugene Stoner. 
The sleek black assault rifle employed 
plastic and aluminum alloys to reduce 
the weight to two pounds less than the 
rival AK-47. And it used even smaller 
ammunition — the 5.56x45mm high-
velocity bullet that was to become the 
standard NATO round.
The result was that, by all accounts, 
the M16 proved to be an exception-
ally reliable and accurate assault rifle. 
Its smaller-caliber bullet was in some 
ways as lethal as the AK-47’s larger 
ammunition, as it had a muzzle veloc-
ity of over 3,000 feet per second, and 
the bullet tended to break up after pen-
etrating flesh. The M16 also proved 
somewhat easier to handle and had less 
recoil than the AK-47. And soldiers 
could carry far more of the light-
er-weight ammunition. The ensuing 
shoot-off between the two weapons in 
the Vietnam War was supposed to make 
clear the American gun’s advantages in 
rates of fire, accuracy, and lethality.
But just the opposite proved to be 
true — at least in the first four years 
of the M16’s wide use. Jamming was 
chronic, apparently due to initial 
design flaws in the gun, manufactur-
ing problems with the gunpowder, and 
soldiers’ frequent failure to clean the 
weapon regularly amid the humidity 
and dirt of the jungle. In contrast, the 
AK-47 seemed nearly indestructible, 
in part due to its simpler construction 
and greater tolerances. In Vietnam, at 
least, the verdict favored the notion
of an uncomplicated assault rifle that 
compensated for lost accuracy by 
achieving greater reliability, simplicity 
of use, and a larger bullet.
The AK-47 further exasperated 
Westerners by its cheap fabrication 
from stamped metals and its brilliant 
operation with just a few working 
parts. By the late 1960s, soldiers were 
taking apart, cleaning, and reassem-
bling the weapon in about half the time 
required for the M16. Something that 
felt and looked so “cheap,” and that 
was produced by the Communist Bloc 
notorious for its shoddily manufac-
tured products, surely, it seemed, could 
not be comparable to a rifle designed 
by the Americans, the British, or the 
Germans, with their far more distin-
guished firearms pedigree.
Yet the Communist Bloc continued 
to meet world demand with millions of 
AK-47s. And when the Soviet Union 
collapsed, its former republics and cli-
ents often sought to unload their stock-
piles at discounted prices. Ironically, 
the United States eventually became 
the largest purchaser of the AK-47 in 
its efforts to supply poorer allies — such 
as some areas of the former-Yugoslavia, 
post-Saddam Iraq, and Afghanistan —
with cheap, reliable assault rifles with-
out its own large fingerprints on the 
arm sales. The result today is that some 
75 million AK-47s have been produced, 
with most still in circulation, making it 
the most ubiquitous weapon in the his-
tory of firearms — dwarfing the M16’s 
eight million.
The debate between exponents of 
the AK-47 and the M16 has never
--- 페이지 6 ---
Summer 2011 ~ 145
A Survey of Technology and Society
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
been resolved, in part because both 
guns continued to evolve with subse-
quent improved models and have now 
both been superseded by more recent 
designs; in part because ideology and 
national chauvinism were inseparable 
from dispassionate analysis; and in part 
because the relative value of accuracy 
versus reliability is so subjective. In 
any case, NATO troops in general felt 
that their improved models of M16s by 
the 1980s had proved superior, even as 
some of the old problems of jamming 
and insufficient stopping power some-
times reappeared during the harsh 
conditions of sand and heat during the 
most recent Iraq War.
The story of the AK-47, amid the 
ongoing saga of rifle evolution, has in 
recent years spawned a number of pop-
ular books. The best is C.J. Chivers’s 
scholarly The Gun. Chivers takes a 
properly skeptical view of many of the 
claims by Mikhail Kalashnikov sur-
rounding the birth of AK-47, and offers 
a sober and fair account of the acrimo-
nious rivalry between the M16 and AK-
47. In dispassionate fashion, Chivers 
concludes that few inventions of the 
twentieth century have done so much 
to kill so many through “war, terror, 
atrocity, and crime.” But after such a 
clear-headed analysis of the AK-47, he 
surprisingly offers the emotional hope 
that eventually the seasons, aging, and 
wear and tear will finally rid the world 
of this nearly indestructible ­menace —
and with it the bestowing into the 
hands of untrained near-­children the 
world over the power to kill indiscrimi-
nately and en masse. To this hope, one
might rejoin that the fault is not in our 
stars, but in our selves.
Larry Kahaner’s book AK-47: The 
Weapon that Changed the Face of War is a 
lighter but nevertheless engaging story 
of the contemporary AK-47 as a cultur-
al phenomenon. He too reminds us that 
many of the terrorist movements and 
insurgencies in Asia, Latin America, 
and especially Africa would have been 
impossible without the widespread dis-
persion of the AK-47, the ideal weap-
on for impoverished, poorly trained 
mercenaries. He points out that the 
acrimonious controversy between the 
AK-47 and the M16 resurfaced again 
forty years after Vietnam during the 
post-Saddam Hussein insurgency, when 
improved versions of both assault rifles 
collided in the streets of urban Iraq. 
And the verdict was again ambiguous, 
as U.S. troops still largely preferred 
their own weapons but developed a 
grudging respect for the insurgents’ 
“bullet hoses,” which shot streams of 
deadly large-caliber bullets at close 
ranges and seemed impervious to the 
sand and heat of the Iraqi landscape.
Then there is the book by Mikhail 
Kalashnikov himself. Now a nonage-
narian, Kalashnikov was presented in 
2009 with the title Hero of the Russian 
Federation, the country’s highest 
honor. With the help of his daughter 
Elena Joly, Kalashnikov wrote an auto-
biography, first published in French in 
2003 and available in a 2006 English 
translation. Kalashnikov fought dur-
ing the worst months of the German 
invasion of Russia; in 1941, in a failed 
counter-offensive, he was almost killed
--- 페이지 7 ---
146 ~ The New Atlantis
State of the Art
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
when his Red Army tank regiment was 
cut off and overwhelmed.
During a long subsequent illness 
and recovery, Kalashnikov’s innate 
gun-making talents were noticed. And 
so, despite his lack of formal design 
training, he was soon promoted to 
work with a team of Soviet engineers, 
quickly emerged as a senior designer, 
and was mostly responsible for the 
AK-47. The most fascinating chapters 
in Kalashnikov’s story are about the 
nightmare of life in Stalin’s Soviet 
Union, in which any achievement, com-
mercial or intellectual, earned envy 
that in turn might translate into accu-
sations of being a counter-revolution-
ary, would-be elite, often with deadly 
repercussions.
As Chivers and Kahaner point out, 
and as is discernible in Kalashnikov’s 
memoir, his relationship with his own 
deadly invention over the last two-
thirds of a century has proved erratic. 
Kalashnikov is proud of his promo-
tion to the rank of lieutenant general 
in the Armed Forces of the Russian 
Federation, and under Communist rule 
he was twice honored as a Hero of 
Socialist Labor. Yet even as Kalashnikov 
details the horrors of Stalinist Russia 
that resulted in his own family’s brutal 
exile, he concludes, “I consider Stalin 
as one of the great national leaders of 
the twentieth century, and as a great 
army leader.”
Kalashnikov takes great trouble to 
note that the AK-47 grew out of an 
effort to protect his homeland from a 
repeat of the sort of barbaric invasion 
that Hitler unleashed, adding that he
did not profit, at least in Western style, 
from the sales of some 100 million 
weapons that bear his name (includ-
ing variants on the AK-47). And yet 
Kalashnikov seems almost longingly to 
note the millions of dollars in profits 
that came to Eugene Stoner from his 
M16, even as he ostensibly prefers 
the public acclaim in Russia that was 
never accorded to Stoner in the United 
States. That same paradox characterizes 
Kalashnikov’s occasional regret that his 
invention became the signature weapon 
among terrorists and ­ bandits — many 
of them now deadly enemies of Russia 
itself — juxtaposed with his pride in 
the astounding success of a supposedly 
defensive AK-47. Speaking at a ceremo-
ny honoring the sixtieth anniversary of 
the weapon, he claimed, “I sleep well. 
It’s the politicians who are to blame for 
failing to come to an agreement and 
resorting to violence.”
So what in the end are we to make of 
the AK-47, given that people ultimate-
ly kill one another and design weap-
ons that do it so effectively? A perfect 
storm of events explains the gun’s 
lethal role in eroding civilization over 
the last six decades. The ­impoverished 
post-colonial world was eager for 
the sort of advanced weapons that 
had characterized a near-century of 
endemic warfare in the more advanced 
West, and the Soviet Union was eager 
to fan liberationist movements against 
the West. It took the postwar glam-
our of international communism, the 
industrial muscle of the Soviet Union, 
and a Russian genius with no higher 
education but great practical savvy
--- 페이지 8 ---
Summer 2011 ~ 147
A Survey of Technology and Society
Copyright 2011. All rights reserved. See www.TheNewAtlantis.com for more information.
to at last provide millions with such 
parity, meeting the requirements of a 
new arms lethality at very little cost. 
The result was the tragedy of a global 
assault rifle that has been crucial to 
self-described liberationists in further-
ing so often the cause of tyranny.
— Victor Davis Hanson is a senior 
fellow in classics and military history at 
the Hoover Institution, and is the author, 
most recently, of The Father of Us All: 
War and History, Ancient and Modern 
(Bloomsbury, 2010) and the novel The 
End of Sparta (Bloomsbury, 2011).
--- 페이지 9 ---
Copyright of New Atlantis: A Journal of Technology & Society is the property of Ethics &
Public Policy Center and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted
to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may
print, download, or email articles for individual use.